. 
. 
 Latest updates: hps://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3572771
. 
. 
 SURVEY
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum
Blockchain: Challenges and Research Directions
MAXIME BUSER, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
. 
 RAFAEL DOWSLEY, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
. 
 MUHAMMED F ESGIN, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
. 
 CLÉMENTINE GRITTI, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, CAN,
New Zealand
. 
 SHABNAM KASRA KERMANSHAHI, RMIT University, Melbourne,
VIC, Australia
. 
 VERONIKA KUCHTA, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL,
United States
. 
 View all
. 
. 
 Open Access Support provided by:
. 
 University of Canterbury
. 
 Monash University
. 
 RMIT University
. 
 Florida Atlantic University
. 
 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
. 
 Monash University Malaysia
. 
 PDF Download
3572771.pdf
02 January 2026
Total Citations: 33
Total Downloads:
2595
. 
. 
 Published: 02 March 2023
Online AM: 01 December 2022
Accepted: 08 November 2022
Revised: 04 November 2022
Received: 06 February 2022
. 
. 
 Citation in BibTeX format
. 
. 
 ACM Computing Surveys, Volume 55, Issue 12 (December 2023)
hps://doi.org/10.1145/3572771
EISSN: 1557-7341
.

251
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain:
Challenges and Research Directions
MAXIME BUSERand RAFAEL DOWSLEY, Monash University, Australia
MUHAMMED ESGIN, Monash University, Australia, and CSIRO’s Data61, Australia
CLÉMENTINE GRITTI, University of Canterbury, New Zealand
SHABNAM KASRA KERMANSHAHI, RMIT University, Australia
VERONIKA KUCHTA, Florida Atlantic University, Australia
JASON LEGROW, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, United States
JOSEPH LIU, Monash University, Australia
RAPHAËL PHAN, Monash University, Malaysia
AMIN SAKZAD, RON STEINFELD,a n dJIANGSHAN YU, Monash University, Australia
Blockchain technology provides efficient and secure solutions to various online activities by utilizing a
wide range of cryptographic tools. In this article, we survey the existing literature on post-quantum se-
cure digital signatures that possessexotic advanced features and that are crucial cryptographic tools used
intheblockchainecosystemfor(1)accountmanagement,(2)consensusefficiency,(3)empoweringscriptless
blockchain,and(4)privacy.Theexoticsignaturesthatweparticularlyfocusoninthisworkarethefollowing:
multi-/aggregate, threshold, adaptor, blind, and ring signatures. Herein the term "exotic" refers to signatures
with properties that are not just beyond the norm for signatures, e.g., unforgeability, but also imbue new
forms of functionalities. Our treatment of such exotic signatures includes discussions on existing challenges
andfutureresearchdirectionsinthepost-quantumspace.Wehopethatthisarticlewillhelptofosterfurther
researchtomakepost-quantumcryptographymoreaccessiblesothatblockchainsystemscanbemadeready
in advance of the approaching quantum threats.
CCS Concepts: •Security and privacy→Digital signatures;
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Post-quantum cryptography, digital signatures, blockchain applications
Authors’ addresses: M. Buser, R. Dowsley, J. Liu, A. Sakzad, R. Steinfeld, and J. Yu, Monash University, Australia; emails:
{maxime.buser, rafael.dowsley, joseph.liu, amin.sakzad, ron.steinfeld, jiangshan.yu}@monash.edu; M. Esgin, Monash Uni-
versity, Australia, and CSIRO’s Data61, Australia; email: muhammed.esgin@monash.edu; C. Gritti, University of Canter-
bury, New Zealand; email: clementine.gritti@canterbury.ac.nz; S. Kasra Kermanshahi, RMIT University, Australia; email:
shabnam.kasra.kermanshahi@rmit.edu.au; V. Kuchta, Florida Atlantic University, Australia; email: vkuchta@fau.edu; J.
LeGrow, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, United States; email: jlegrow@vt.edu; R. Phan, Monash Uni-
versity, Malaysia; email: raphael.phan@monash.edu.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and
the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions frompermissions@acm.org.
© 2023 Association for Computing Machinery.
0360-0300/2023/03-ART251 $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3572771
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:2 M. Buser et al.
ACM Reference format:
MaximeBuser,RafaelDowsley,MuhammedEsgin,ClémentineGritti,ShabnamKasraKermanshahi,Veronika
Kuchta, Jason LeGrow, Joseph Liu, Raphaël Phan, Amin Sakzad, Ron Steinfeld, and Jiangshan Yu. 2023. A
SurveyonExoticSignaturesforPost-quantumBlockchain:ChallengesandResearchDirections. ACMComput.
Surv.55, 12, Article 251 (March 2023), 32 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3572771
1 INTRODUCTION
Cryptographic algorithms play a key role in blockchain systems to guarantee security, preserve
privacy, and improve system performance. Digital signatures, in particular, are one of the key
cryptographic primitives for blockchains. For example, Bitcoin [120] deploys theElliptic Curve
Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)to manage coin ownership, so that funds can only be
spent by their rightful owners. In particular, a classic signature scheme consists of a public verifi-
cation key and a private signing key. A Bitcoin address is a 160-bit hash derived deterministically
from the ECDSA verification key. Anyone who possesses the corresponding ECDSA signing key
hastherighttospendthefundrepresentedbytheBitcoinaddress.Atransactiontotransferfunds
fromone(ormore)BitcoinaddresstootherBitcoinaddressesisauthorizedifallinputs(i.e.,Bitcoin
addresses of the to-be-spent funds) are signed by using the corresponding signing keys.
Withtheadvancementofblockchains(see,e.g.,[ 154]),signatureswithspecialfeaturesandfunc-
tionalitiesbeyondtheconventionalunforgeability(i.e., exoticsignatures)havealsobeenleveraged
to tackle various issues therein. In fact, there exists a rich literature in using different signature
schemes in digital cash before the birth of the blockchain, such as using blind signatures to pre-
ventthesigner(i.e.,thepayee)frombeinglinkedtoitstransactions[ 42].Othersignatureschemes,
such as adaptor, multi-, aggregate, threshold, and ring signatures, also play important roles in
the blockchain. They empower blockchains with additional features in four main aspects, namely
account management, consensus efficiency, empowering scriptless blockchains, and user privacy.
For account management, Bitcoin natively supports multi-signature addresses (with
OPCHECKMULTISIG) via its Non-Turing complete script language [23], to enable jointly owned
asset management. A multi-signature address specifies a list ofn ECDSA public keys and a
threshold t ≤n, where the holders of at leastt corresponding secret keys are each required to
provide a signature to validate the transaction spending the jointly owned coin. While using
multi-signature to manage jointly owned assets provides accountability, i.e., the set of signers is
made transparent on blockchain, it has its own limit. First, with Bitcoin, the numbern of keys
has a hardcoded limit, making it non-scalable. In addition, it also incurs more transaction fees
due to the larger size of a transaction (containingt signatures). Last, this is not privacy-friendly
and may not be suitable for privacy-aware applications. Threshold signature schemes have been
proposed to improve jointly owned asset management, where the ability to construct a single
signatureisdistributedto nparticipants,suchthatproducingasignaturerequirestheinvolvement
of t participants. This addresses the weaknesses of multi-signature transactions and has been
implemented in several services, such as Binance, Wanchain, and Fusion.
For consensus efficiency, traditional Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) protocols, such as
PBFT [38], use an all-to-all message pattern to commit a decision block. To reduce the commu-
nication complexity fromO(n2) toO(n), aggregated or threshold signatures have been leveraged
in several blockchain consensus protocols, such as SBFT [77], HotStuff [155], and Damysus [55].
Layer 2 protocols are one of the promising techniques to scale blockchains. In particular, layer
2 protocols, such as payment channels, aim to improve the throughput of blockchains by only
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:3
recording a summary of a potentially large number of transactions into the blockchain. Taking
payment channel as an example, two users establish a payment channel on a blockchain by com-
mitting pre-defined collaterals (i.e., coins) on the blockchain and start to update the balance of
the channel between the two users according to the agreed payments. Upon the channel closure,
they only need to record the final state of the balance to represent all intermediate payments
on the blockchain. Layer 2 protocols normally require the support of script language, making it
challengingforscriptlessblockchains(suchasMoneroorZCash)toadoptthetechnique.Adaptor
signatures have been considered to enable layer 2 protocols on scriptless blockchains [7,117].
Exotic signatures have also been leveraged to protect blockchain privacy. The two main types
ofsignaturesforblockchainprivacyareblindsignatureandringsignature.Theuseofblindsigna-
ture has been proposed to improve Bitcoin privacy by constructing a coin mixing service, such as
BlindCoin [147], to hide the payment links. CryptoNote[49] was proposedto provide transaction
untraceability in blockchain-based cryptocurrencies. Unlike in Bitcoin where an observer of the
blockchain can learn the trace of all coins, CryptoNote hides the trace of coins by using linkable
ring signature [122]. In particular, linkable ring signature helps to hide the real coin to spend into
a number of other coins, called mix-ins, leading to a better privacy guarantee. To date, Monero is
the most famous privacy-preserving cryptocurrency with a market cap of $2.6 Billion USD.1
While the vital role of cryptographic primitives is well recognized, the advancement of quan-
tum computing raises a growing concern on the resilience of deployed cryptographic algorithms
against quantum adversaries, as existing computational hardness assumptions may not hold any-
more [11]. For example, Shor’s algorithm makes it possible to solve the problems of large inte-
ger factorization and discrete logarithm [142]. The recent announcements of achieving “quantum
supremacy”byGoogle[ 6]andIBM[ 127]furtherstrengthentheurgetohavepost-quantumsecure
blockchains.
Contribution. A systematic analysis on the landscape of post-quantum secure cryptographic
constructions for exotic signatures is desired but missing from the literature. This article fills the
g a pb yp r o v i d i n gas u r v e yo npost-quantum (PQ)exotic signatures needed by blockchain sys-
tems. Considering that all results related to exotic signatures is too much to cover in a single
article, we limit the scope of the article based on the following. First, to restrict the number of
different signature types we discuss, we focus on the exotic signatures that have an existing ma-
jor blockchain application, and not those that maypotentially be useful in the blockchain setting.
Since the blockchain application space spans a wide range of real-life settings, it is likely that any
signature-likeschememaypotentiallyfindablockchainapplication,butitisnotpossibletocover
all such schemes in a single article. Second, since we are motivated by a real-life application (i.e.,
blockchain),wefocusonthemostpracticallyefficientresultsanddonotdiscussthemoretheoret-
ical or practically less efficient results. Moreover, post-quantum ordinary signatures have already
reachedacertainmaturityandtherehasalreadybeenworkssuchas[ 44]thatsurveythem.There-
fore, we also do not discuss particular post-quantum ordinary signature proposals in this work.
When considering post-quantum cryptographic protocols, it is natural to ask what quantum
capabilities to consider for the adversary. Naturally we must allow the adversary the ability to
run quantum algorithms, and beyond this, some works allow quantuminteractive capabilities—
in particular, we may consider quantum access to random oracles (the “quantum random oracle
model” [26]) or to oracles representing honest parties (e.g., the EUF-qCMA model [29] allows the
adversary quantum access to a signing oracle). In this article, we will not consider the quantum
1https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/monero/(accessed January 31, 2022).
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:4 M. Buser et al.
randomoraclemodelorquantuminteractionswithsigningoracles.Sinceweareconsideringonly
classical protocols, there is no real-world scenario in which an adversary would have quantum
accesstosignaturegeneration,sothisrestrictionisquitereasonable.Thequantumrandomoracle
model, on the other hand, would be reasonable to consider—however, the field of post-quantum
exoticsignaturesisrathernew,andhassimplynotmaturedtothepointthatthequantumrandom
oracle model has been sufficiently considered in the literature. Thus, we leave this consideration
for future work.
There are some (planned) efforts by major blockchain applications to support post-quantum
cryptographictools.Forexample,theEthereum2.0upgrade 2 isexpectedtosupportsomequantum-
safe cryptographic tools. Moreover, Algorand has recently introducedstate proofs,3 where a post-
quantumsignaturescheme(basedonlatticeproblems)isused.Beyondthese,wearenotawareof
a large-scale adoption of PQ tools in the blockchain setting and hope our work will pave the way
toward a wider adoption of PQ cryptography for blockchain applications.
Therestofthearticleisstructuredasfollows.InSection 2,wediscussthemainsecurityassump-
tions that are believed to be quantum-safe. Particularly, we discuss assumptions based on hash
functions, lattices, isogenies, codes, and multivariate polynomials. Then, we provide an overview
on the role of different types of commonly deployed exotic signatures in blockchain in Section3.
In Section4, we first overview the general zero-knowledge proof paradigms used to construct a
largesubsetofthepost-quantumexoticsignatureswediscussinthiswork.Ourgoalhereisnotto
discuss particular proof systems, but rather to overview the common building stones in order not
to repeat the same discussions for different signature types. For example, the “Fiat-Shamir with
Aborts”paradigm(discussedinSection 4)inthecontextoflattice-basedzero-knowledgeproofsis
used to construct threshold, adaptor, and ring signatures. Then, Section4 continues to our main
discussion on different types of PQ exotic signatures, including multisignature and aggregate sig-
nature (Section4.1), threshold signature (Section4.2), adaptor signature (Section4.3), and blind
signature and ring signature (Section4.4).
2 POST-QUANTUM SECURITY ASSUMPTIONS
While most of the currently deployed cryptographic schemes rely on the two main classical secu-
rity assumptions, namely the integer factorization problem or discrete logarithm problem, quan-
tum computers will make such schemes obsolete. The well-known Shor’s and Grover’s algorithm
run on a quantum computer will be able to solve the two above-mentioned security assumptions
in polynomial time and therefore break public-key cryptography relying on these assumptions.
In contrast to the pre-quantum cryptographic schemes, their post-quantum counterparts rely on
mathematicalhardnessproblemsthatarebelievedtoremainhardevenwiththepresenceofaquan-
tumcomputer.Themainsuchpost-quantumhardnessassumptionswillbepresentedinthesubse-
quentsections.Asetofveryrecentworks(afterourliteraturereview)haveshowntheinsecurityof
some assumptions discussed in this section. For historical reasons, we still describe these assump-
tionsandmarkthemby ⊘inTable 1toindicatethattheyare(asymptoticallyorpractically)broken.
2.1 Hash-based Assumptions
Hash-basedorsymmetrickey-basedcryptographyisoneofthecandidatestodesignquantum-safe
signatureschemes.Oneofthemainfeaturesofhash-basedcryptographyisthatthesecurityofthe
schemes relies solely on the collision resistance of a hash function. Even if a used hash-function
becomes insecure, it can be replaced by another secure hash-function without the need to use
2See https://blog.ethereum.org/2015/12/24/understanding-serenity-part-i-abstraction/ (accessed on August 9, 2022).
3See https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/algorand_consensus/#state-proof-keys (accessed on August 9, 2022).
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:5
any other mathematical hardness assumption. One of the first hash-based digital signatures was
introduced by Merkle in 1989 [114]. An earlier work by Lamport [94] in 1979 presented a one-
time signature that can be constructed from any secure hash-function. This work represents an
important component in many follow-up constructions of hash-based signature schemes.
A hash functionHis a function:
H: {0,1}∗→{0,1}n,D ←H(m), (1)
that maps an arbitrary-length messagem to ann-bit hash value denoted as the digestD.Ah a s h
function is expected to satisfy three properties:
•PreimageResistance:Knowingthedigest D,itiscomputationallyinfeasibletofindaninput
m s.t. H(m) = D.
•CollisionResistance:Giventwoinputs m1 /nequalm2,H(m1) = H(m2)happenswithanegligible
probability.
•Second Preimage Resistance: Knowing an inputm, it is computationally infeasible to find
m′/nequalm s.t. H(m′) = H(m).
A symmetric encryption scheme is defined by a tuple of three algorithms(KeyGen,Enc,Dec):
•KeyGen: This generates a secret keysk ∈{0,1}n.
•Enc: This takes as inputs a messagem and the secret keysk and outputs a ciphertextct.
•Dec: This takes as inputs a ciphertext and the secret keysk and outputs the corresponding
plaintext.
Symmetricencryptionschemesareabletosatisfythepropertyofexistentialunforgeabilityunder
the chosen message. The first important element to know is that its security is only affected by
Grover’salgorithmandnotbyShor’salgorithm.Grover’salgorithmcanrecoverasecretkeyorthe
inputofahashfunctionin √n quantumqueries,where n isthesizeofthesecretkeyorsizeofthe
hash outputs. This means that to counter this quantum Grover algorithm, hash-based primitives
simply double the size of the secret keys or the size of the digests.
2.2 Lattice-based Assumptions
Lattice-basedcryptographyisapromisingcandidateforquantum-safecryptographyastheirsecu-
rity proofs are based on worst-case hardness and the corresponding constructions enjoy efficient
implementations. In his seminal work, Ajtai [1] showed a connection between worst-case and
average-case hardness and the suitability of lattices in cryptography. In this section we provide
some of the main notions and definitions of lattice-basedcryptography.An dimensional lattice is
a set of integer linear combinations of basis vectorsb1,..., bn ∈Rn:
L(b1,..., bn) =
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
n∑
i=1
xibi|xi ∈Z
⎫⎪⎬⎪⎭
.
The set of basis vectors in denoted byB, i.e.,B = {b1,..., bn}. The most basic geometric quantity
about a lattice is its minimum, aka Minkovski’s first minimum. For ann-dimensional latticeL its
minimumλ(L)isthelengthoftheshortestnon-zerovectorof L,i.e., λ(L) = min
(
∥b∥:b ∈L\0
)
.
The most well-known lattice-based hardness problems introduced by Ajtai [1] are the following:
Shortest Vector Problem (SVP):G i v e nab a s i sB, find the shortestv ∈L(B),w h e r ev /nequal0.
γ-ShortestVectorProblem( γ-SVP):Givenabasis Bforan n-dimensionallattice L,findavector
v ∈L with 0<∥v∥≤γλ(L).
Note: Forγ >2O(n) theγ-SVP problem is easy to solve by using the LLL algorithm [97] in polyno-
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:6 M. Buser et al.
mial time. However, forγ <O(1) the problem is NP hard and thus very unlikely to be solved in
polynomial time.
Closest Vector Problem (CVP):Given a basisB and a target vectort, find the lattice point
v ∈L(B) that is closest tot.
Shortest Independent Vectors Problem (SIVP):Given a basisB,fi n dn linearly independent
lattice vectorsS = {s1,..., sn}that minimize the norm∥S∥= maxi ∥si∥≤β,w h e r ei ∈[1,n]a n d
β is an upper bound of the Euclidean norm.
In1997,Ajtai[ 1]introducedtheShortIntegerSolutionproblem,whichservedasthebaseforone-
way and collision-resistant hash functions.
ShortIntegerSolution(SIS)Problem[ 1]:Given muniformlyrandomvectors ai ∈Zn
q thatform
the columns of a matrixA ∈Zn×m
q , the problem is to find a non-zero integer vectorv ∈Zm of
Euclidean norm∥v∥≤β for a positive realβ, such thatAv = 0 mod q.
Many of the lattice-based constructions we address in this article are based on the conjectured
hardnessofthe LearningWithErrors(LWE) problem,whichwasintroducedbyRegev[ 134]in
2005. It is defined given a probability distributionχ on Zq, normally taken to be a normal distri-
bution with standard deviationσ:
Learning With Errors (LWE) Problem [134]: Given parametersq,n,m,α, a matrixA ←↩
U(Zm×n
q ) andy = A·s +e mod q,w h e r ee ←↩χm
αq with standard deviationαq ands ←↩U(Zn
q),
finds.
Corresponding to the above-stated Search LWE problem, there exists also a Decision LWE prob-
lem where the goal is to distinguishy as computed above from a randomy ←↩U(Zn
q).
TheLWEproblemisbelievedtobeveryhard,withthebest-knownalgorithmssolvingtheproblem
in time that is exponential in the lattice dimensionn. We remark that SIS and LWE problems are
averagecaseapproximationvariantsofSVPandCVPfortheclassof q-arylatticesdefinedover Zq.
Practical lattice-based cryptographic algorithms often use algebraically structured variants of the
SISandLWEproblemsdefinedoverpolynomialringssuchas Rq = Zq[X]/(XN +1),with N = 2k,
which can be exploited to reduce communication/storage and computational costs. In particular,
theR-SISproblemwasintroducedanditshardnessstudiedin[ 104,116,129],andtheR-LWEprob-
lemwasintroducedanditshardnessstudiedin[ 106,143].Bothringproblemsarecommonlyused
structuredvariantsofSISandLWE,where Zq intheunstructuredvariantsisreplacedby Rq.More
flexibility in the lattice dimension is offered by the generalmodule variants of those problems: M-
LWE introduced in [32] and M-SIS introduced in [95]; the hardness of both problems was studied
in[95].Themoduleproblemsinfactgeneralizetheirunstructuredandringvariants,includingthe
latterasspecialcases:themoduleproblemsaredefinedwithrespecttoamatrix A ∈Rm×n
q andthe
casesn = 1a n dN = 1 correspond to the ring and unstructured variants, respectively.
2.3 Isogeny-based Assumptions
Isogeny-based protocols are built on the assumption that, given two elliptic curves, it is generally
difficult to find an isogeny of a specific form (which depends on the protocol being considered)
betweenthem.Isogeny-basedexoticsignatureprotocolsarebuiltonessentiallytwokindsofprob-
lems:thosethatresemblethe“computationalsupersingularisogenyproblemwithtorsionpointin-
formation”[88]andthosethatresemble“computationalgroupactioninversion”[ 40]fortheaction
of the ideal class group. In this section we briefly introduce the fundamental algebraic-geometric
definitions and these computational problems.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:7
An elliptic curveE in Montgomery form defined over a fieldk is the set ofk-solutions to an
equation
E/k: y2 = x3 +Ax2 +x
for someA ∈k \{−2,2}, along with a distinguished point∞. The constantA is called the Mont-
gomery coefficient, and we letEA denote the curve with Montgomery coefficientA. An elliptic
curve is a group under the chord-and-tangent law, with∞acting as the group identity. We define
thesetof k-rationalpointsof EA tobe EA(k) = {(x,y) ∈EA : x,y ∈k}.Infact, EA(k)isasubgroup
of EA. For any integerN,w el e tEA[N] = {P ∈EA : NP = ∞}denote the set ofN-torsion points
ofEA. It is well known that as long asN is coprime to chark,w eh a v eEA[N] /simequalZ/NZ ⊕Z/NZ.
Every elliptic curve is either ordinary or supersingular. There are many equivalent characteri-
zations of these notions; in isogeny-based cryptography we work over finite fieldsk = GF(p) or
k =GF(p2), and in this setting we have
EA[pn] /simequal
⎧⎪⎨⎪⎩
{0} ifEA is supersingular
Z/pnZ ifEA is ordinary
for alln ∈N. Isogeny-based cryptography almost exclusively uses supersingular curves, since for
supersingular curves we have considerable control over the group structure of the subgroup of
k-rational points, as discussed in [88, Section 4] and [40, Section 3].
An isogenyψ: EA →EB between elliptic curves is a non-constant rational map that is also a
group homomorphism. The degree of an isogeny is simply its degree as a rational map. We say
that an isogeny isk-rational if the coefficients of the polynomials in its coordinate maps can be
taken to be ink.
With these definitions, we can define theComputational supersingular isogeny prob-
lem with torsion point information (SSI-T)problem: LetN, N′be coprime integers, and let
ψ: EA →EB be an isogeny of degreeN.G i v e nN,N′,EA,EB,a n dψ(P),ψ(Q),w h e r e{P,Q}is a
generating set forEA[N′], findψ.
A recent series of works due to Castryck and Decru [39], Maino and Martindale [109], and
Robert [136] demonstrates that the SSI-T problem can, in fact, be solved in polynomial time; this
renders all exotic signatures built on SSI-T and related problems insecure. In particular, the two
blind signatures we discuss in Section4.4 are not secure, though we briefly discuss them for his-
torical reasons.
Isogeny-based protocols based on theGroup Action Inversionproblem are immune to the
Castryck-Decru, Maino-Martindale, and Robert attacks; we discuss that problem here. Given an
ellipticcurve EA,itsendomorphismringEnd (EA)isthesetofallisogenies ψ: EA →EA,alongwith
theconstantmap ψ0,whichsendseachpointof EA to∞;theringoperationsarepointwiseaddition
and function composition. WhenEA is defined overGF(p), we define the subring Endp(EA) to be
theringofall GF(p)-rationalendomorphismsof EA,againalongwith ψ0.When EA issupersingular
and defined overGF(p), it is known that Endp(EA) is isomorphic to an orderOin an imaginary
quadratic field; moreover, the ideal class group cl(O) of this order acts freely and transitively by
complex multiplication on the setEℓℓ(O) of elliptic curvesE′, which have Endp(E′) /simequalO—for
details on the definition of this action, see [40, Section 3].
Theothermajorprobleminisogeny-basedcryptography—oftencalled groupactioninversion
(GAIP)—is to invert complex multiplication: that is, givenEA,EB, which satisfy Endp(EA) /simequalO/simequal
Endp(EB), to find an ideal class [a] ∈cl(O) such thatEB = [a] ∗EA. Some protocols consider a
multi-target (MT)variant of the problem: givenEA1,EA2,..., EAn whose endomorphism rings
are pairwise isomoprhic, find [a],k1,k2 such thatEAk2 = [a] ∗EAk1 . At present, these problems
underlie all secure isogeny-based exotic signature protocols.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:8 M. Buser et al.
2.4 Code-based Assumptions
Code-based cryptographic schemes deploy anerror correction code (ECC)in their algorithm.
The security analysis of code-based cryptosystems assumes that the attacker has no access to
the algebraic structure of the underlying ECC. Therefore, correcting errors is only possible if one
knows a parity check (generator) matrix. LetCdenote a linear code of lengthn and dimensionk.
Letr = n −k be the codimension ofCand H a parity matrix of this code. A syndrome mapping
relatively to the parity matrixH is defined as
SH : {0,1}n →{0,1}r,y ↦→yHtr .
Next, lets ∈{0,1}r denote a syndrome that defines a set of words of{0,1}n as follows:
S−1
H (s) = {y ∈{0,1}n|yHtr =s}.
The security of code-based cryptosystems relies on decoding problems that either address the
Hamming distance of a codewordx ∈C to a wordy or look for the minimal Hamming weight
of an errore lying either in the cosety + Cor inS−1
H (s). These problems are not in NP, because
it is difficult to check whethere is really of minimal weight in the coset. Therefore, we focus on
slightly different decoding problems, which were defined in [17]:
ComputationalSyndromeDecoding. Givenan r×nmatrixH,aword s ∈{0,1}r,andapositive
integerw >0, find a worde ∈S−1
H (s) of Hamming weight at mostw.
It is worth mentioning that the corresponding decision problem is NP-complete.
Codeword Finding.Given a binaryr ×n matrixH and a positive integerw >0, find a non-zero
word of Hamming weight at mostw inS−1
H (0).
Complete Decoding. Given a binaryr ×n matrix H and a words ∈{ 0,1}r, find a word of
Hamming weight at mostd0(n,r) inS−1
H (s).
2.5 MQ-assumptions
The first Multivariate Public-Key Cryptography (MPKC)as we know it today was intro-
duced in 1988 by Matsumoto and Imai [112]. MPKC is based on the existence of trapdoor one-
way functions, which is defined in the form of a multivariate quadratic polynomial map over
a finite field. The public key of such a cryptosystem is given as a set of quadratic polynomials
P= (p1(w1,..., wn),..., pm(w1,..., wn)).E a c ho ft h epis is defined as the following quadratic
polynomial:
pi(w1,..., wn) :=
∑
k
Pkiwk +
∑
k
Qkiw2
k +
∑
k>ℓ
Rkℓiwkwℓ,
where all coefficients and variables are inFq.
The hardness problem introduced in [112] that all multivariate public-key cryptographic
schemes rely on is called the multivariate quadratic (MQ) problem, which is defined as
follows:
MQ Problem:Given multivariate quadratic polynomialspi(x),x = (x1,..., xn),w h e r ea l lc o e ffi -
cients and variables are in the finite fieldFq, the MQ problem is to solve the systemp1(x) = ··· =
pm(x) = 0.
The Rainbow signature scheme [58] is one of the oldest and most well-studied multivariate
signatureschemesthatmadeittothethirdroundofNISTPost-QuantumCryptographystandard-
ization process. A recent work by Beullens [18] showed how to practically break Rainbow. As a
result, the multivariate blind signatures and ring signatures we discuss in Sections4.2and4.4are
not secure anymore, because they fall short of guaranteeing the required post-quantum security
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:9
Fig. 1. Roadmap of studied exotic signature schemes.
due to the underlying insecure Rainbow signature scheme. However, we give a brief description
of these schemes for historical reasons.
3 OVERVIEW: EXOTIC SIGNATURES FOR BLOCKCHAIN
This section presents a brief overview on the need of signature schemes with special features
in blockchain, which establishes the necessary background to understand the roles of advanced
cryptographic signatures in blockchain and introduces the roadmap (see Figure1).
3.1 Account Management: Multi- and Aggregate Signature
Amultisignatureisadigitalsignatureschemethatallowsagroupofuserstojointlysignamessage.
The identities of all signers of a multisignature are transparent and verifiable. It is usually desired
to have a single signature representing the collection of distinct signatures on the same message,
as this reduces both the size of the jointly signed message and the time to verify its validity. Such
multisignature schemes, where distinct signatures on the same message can be aggregated, are
calledaggregatesignature.Givenamultisignature,theidentitiesofgroupmemberswhoproduced
it are known to the verifier.
This concept is particularly useful for ownership management in the blockchain, such as main-
tainingajointaccountwheretheauthorizationfrommultipleusersisrequiredtovalidateatrans-
action, increasing wallet security where compromising a single signing key does not lead to the
compromise of the wallet [5].
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:10 M. Buser et al.
3.2 Consensus Efficiency: Threshold Signature
(t,n)-Thresholdsignaturesenableapre-definedminimumnumber t ofsignerstogenerateavalid
signatureonbehalfofagroupofsize n.Theidentityofallinvolvedsignersishidden.Thisprimitive
enables better efficiency for theByzantine Fault-Tolerant (BFT)-style consensus.
In particular, miners in blockchain systems reach an agreement on the validity and ordering of
transactions through a consensus mechanism [121]. In addition to the permissionless blockchain
consensusalgorithms(suchasproof-of-workandproof-of-stake),BFT-styleconsensusalgorithms
are also a popularchoice [36,48,158]as theyprovide instant finality andbetter throughput[150].
However,BFTprotocolsrequireparticipants(akareplicas)tocollectandverifyapre-definedmin-
imum number of signed votes from distinct replicas [111]. In most of the BFT protocols, at least
one replica needs to forward the collected distinct signatures to others, where this can be made
more efficient by leveraging a threshold signature.
3.3 Empowering Scriptless Blockchain: Adaptor Signature
Adaptor signature schemes allow a party to pre-sign a message in a way that anyone can turn it
into a valid signature if a secret witness of the pre-signed message is known. This has been used
to empower scriptless blockchains with offchain payments and atomic swaps.
Layer 2 solutions support offchain payments, where a payer and a payee can process payment
withouttheneedtorecordtheirtransactionsonline[ 79].Withoffchainpaymentsolutions,suchas
paymentchannelorstatechannel,thechannelstateisupdatedthroughnewoffchaintransactions
andamechanismforstaterevocationisrequiredtoavoidstateduplication.Whilestaterevocation
canbeachievedthroughblockchainscripts,itischallengingforscriptlessblockchains.Theuseof
adaptor signatures [63] has been explored to enable state revocation with scriptless blockchains
[7, 117].
Atomic swap protocols [81] enable parties to exchange assets across different blockchains.
Atomic swap protocols require assets to be locked before the exchange is successful. However,
similar to the payment channel network, such locking normally requires the support of a script
language. The use of an adaptor signature enables atomic swap protocols to be executed over
scriptless blockchains [132].
3.4 Privacy: Blind Signature and Ring Signature
As blockchains provide a transparent archive of all transactions, privacy is also a main concern.
Blind signatures [42] are proposed for protecting the transaction privacy in the digital cash appli-
cationbeforethebirthoftheblockchain,andalsointheblockchain-basedcryptocurrencies[ 153].
With a blind signature scheme, the message is blinded before it is signed. The resulting blind sig-
nature can be verified by anyone who has knowledge of the original unblinded message.
A Linkable Ring Signature (LRS)[100] is a more popular primitive for protecting user pri-
vacy in cryptocurrencies [122, 149]. An LRS enables a signer to hide herself among a group of
entities, with an additional constraint that if the signer creates two distinct signatures by us-
ing the same key, then the identity of the signer will be revealed. This primitive is leveraged
in cryptocurrencies to protect transaction untraceability, which guarantees that it is impossible
to trace any coin back to another transaction. Monero, which improves upon the CryptoNote-
style blockchains [149], is a notable example built upon the LRS primitive. It deploys theRing
Confidential Transactions (RingCT)protocol, where the LRS is used for protecting untrace-
ability and an additional commitment scheme with range proof is used for hiding the transaction
amount[122].However,priorresearchshowsthatevenwhenassumingasecureRingCTprotocol,
thetransactionuntraceabilitystillcannotbeachievedwhenconsideringsidechannelinformation
and user behaviors [37,43,93,119,157,159].
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:11
4 POST-QUANTUM SCHEMES FOR BLOCKCHAIN
This section provides an analysis of the recent and advanced post-quantum cryptographic prim-
itives, with a focus on zero-knowledge proofs and special flavors of digital signatures we callex-
otic signatures. Figure1 provides a roadmap of the primitives we present in this article and their
connection. Our main focus is on the exotic signature schemes such as adaptor, blind, multi-/
aggregate, threshold, and ring signatures. We analyze the post-quantum constructions of the
above-mentioned signatures and emphasize the challenges and drawbacks in the existing lattice-,
isogeny-,hash-,andcode-basedandmultivariateschemes.Itisworthmentioningthatseveralsig-
nature schemes can be constructed from zero-knowledge protocols. Therefore, there is a direct
connection between the zero-knowledge proofs and exotic signatures, as we can see in Figure1.
Lastly,wepresentthepost-quantumconstructionsofringconfidentialtransactions(RingCT)that
can be constructed from ring signatures. This fact establishes a connection between the exotic
signaturesandRingCTshowninFigure 1.Theanalysisoftheseexoticprimitivesmakesourwork
distinct from the previous results [68] as their focus is mainly placed on encryption schemes and
conventional signature schemes.
Important Zero-knowledge Paradigms Underlying Efficient Exotic Signatures
Zero-knowledge Proofs (ZKPs), initially introduced by Goldwasser et al. [78], describe a para-
doxical nature of NP proof systems where a prover convinces a verifier about some statement
without revealing anything else apart from the claim that the statement is correct. Being such
a powerful tool, it is no surprise that ZKPs can be used to construct various signature schemes.
Therefore, we next discuss the general ZKP paradigms used as a building block for post-quantum
signature-like schemes we discuss in this work.
Lattice-based approach.There is a very rich literature in designing lattice-based ZKPs. Those
relevantfor practical applications(suchasblockchainprotocols)mainlyfollowthe “Fiat-Shamir
with Aborts” (FSwA)paradigm [102, 103]. This approach is an adaptation of the Schnorr proof
system[140]tothelatticesettingwithanadditionalrejectionsamplingtechnique.Inparticular,the
overallproofoftenfollows(oratleastincludes)thethree-movecommit-challenge-responsestruc-
ture, where (1) in thecommit phase, the prover commits to some masking value(s) and transfers
thecommitment(s)totheverifier;(2)inthe challengephase,theverifiersendsarandomchallenge
(sampled from a certain distribution) to the prover; and (3) in theresponse phase, the prover re-
veals the masked openings that are used to validate the proof. Many signature-like lattice-based
schemes follow (in part) the above paradigm but adjust it to the specific requirements of the con-
crete construction.
Hash-based approach.Symmetric-based ZKPs use a one-way functionF : {0,1}n →{0,1}n like
block ciphers or hash functions, which can be represented as a binary or arythemtic circuit. They
prove the knowledge of a secret inputx with the help of the public outputy (F(x) = y). There
existdifferentapproachestoprovetheknowledgeoftheinput x.OneapproachintroducedbyIshai
et al.[85]iscalledMPC-in-the-head,whichconsistsofsimulatingamulti-partycomputationofthe
functionF betweenanumberofpartiestoprovetheknowledgeof x.IntheworkofZKBoo[ 76]and
ZKB++[41],bothschemescompute F witha multi-partycomputation(MPC) protocolbetween
threepartiesandthenrevealtheviewsofonlytwoofthemintheproof.Katzet al.introducedthe
ZKP system KKW [92], which improves ZKB++ when it comes to proof size. KWW increases the
number of parties for the MPC-in-the-head parts, which results in a decrease of the proof size.
The proof contains the view of all parties except one. ZBK++ and KKW are at the heart of the
security of the digital signature Picnic [41] submitted to the NIST standardization process. An
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:12 M. Buser et al.
optimized version of KKW is presented in [91]. The proof size depends directly on the number of
multiplications (“AND” gates) in the circuitF; therefore, ZKB++ and KKW use the non-standard
b l o c kc i p h e rL o w M C[2], which has a low multiplicative complexity. The works [54] and [12]u s e
(MPC-in-the-head)butemploythestandardAESasaone-wayfunction F.Low-degreetesting[ 14]
is an alternative to MPC-in-the-head to construct symmetric-based ZKPs and is implemented in
ZKPs such as Ligero++ [22], ZK-STARK [13], and Aurora [14]. The results presented in [22]a n d
[14] show that this latter technique could be more promising than MPC-in-the-head.
Isogeny-based approach.Isogeny-based ZKPs can be broadly divided into two classes: those
which that knowledge of a solution to an SSI-T instance and those that prove knowledge of a
solution to a GAIP or MT-GAIP instance. These protocols are described in detail in [88] (in the
SIDH-like setting) and [20] (in the CSIDH-like setting). The underlying hard problem of finding
such an isogeny is called thesupersingular isogeny problem(SSI).
The primary application of these isogeny-based ZKPs—especially in the blockchain-relevant
context—is to construct isogeny-based digital signatures by applying the Fiat-Shamir trans-
form [69] or the Unruh transform [146], such as Yoo et al.’s scheme [156], SeaSign [52], and
CSI-FiSh [20]. Extensions of these simple ZKP protocols are used to develop the special flavors
presented in Section4.
Code-based approach. The first code-based ZKP construction was proposed by Stern [144],
which was based on thesyndrome decoding (SD)problem. It was shown how to use this ZKP
as a basis for the zero-knowledge identification scheme. In a subsequent work [87], the authors
proposed a ZKP based on theExact Learning Parity with Noise (xLPN)problem, which is a
special case of the LPN problem. We note that their ZKP construction represents a special case of
a Sigma protocol where the soundness error is larger than 1/2. The total complexity of the pro-
tocol in [87]i sΘ(∑ Ciℓlogℓ),w h e r eCi are the layers of the used circuitC and ℓis the length of
the underlying LPN problem. A special case of code-based ZKPs was introduced in [35], which
provides a zero-knowledge protocol for the correct evaluation of a code-basedpseudorandom
function(PRF).Suchproofsystemallowstheprovertoconvincetheverifierthatagivenoutput
y is correctly computed by a code-based PRF using a secret keyk and an inputx. The communi-
cation complexity of this ZKP depends on the input dimensiont of code-based PRF. Fort = 128
andt = 256thecommunicationcomplexityrangesbetweenapproximately700MBand1 ,500MB,
respectively, which justifies the use of this ZKP only in prove-on-demand application scenarios.
Multivariateapproach. Thefirstzero-knowledgeprotocolbasedonmultivariatequadraticpoly-
nomialswasproposedin[ 139].Theconstructionfollowsthecut-and-chooseapproach,wherethe
secrettheproverwantstoproveissplitintosharesandaftertheverifier’schoicetheproverproves
the correctness of some of the shares. Mathematical properties such as modular exponentiation
д ↦→дx mod p and a linear functionx ↦→Mx are used in this approach. For instance, when shar-
ing a secrets = s1 +s2, the map of this secret can be written asдs = дs1дs2 and Ms = Ms1 +Ms2.
However, these properties are not given in the MQ function(x1,..., xn) ↦→(y1,..., yn),w h e r e
yk = ∑
i,j ak,i,jxixj +∑
i bk,ixi.Thiscanbefixedbyusingthebilinearitypropertyofthepolarform
oftheMQfunction.Thesecurityoftheconstructionreliesontheconjecturedintractabilityofthe
MQ problem assuming the existence of a non-interactive commitment scheme that is statistically
hiding and computationally binding.
4.1 Account Management: Multi- and Aggregate Signature
Theconstructofmulti-signaturewasfirstarticulatedbyItakuraandNakamura[ 86],whereacoali-
tion of signers generate a signatureσ together over a messagem. Given the set of public keys of
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:13
all signers and the messagem, σ can be verified publicly. A straightforward approach is to gen-
erate a signature overm per each individual signer and then concatenate all of them. This trivial
approach is not practical as the size of the multi-signature grows linearly with the number of
signers. Thus, ideally the size of the signature in a multi-signature protocol should be similar
to a single-signer scheme. In Bitcoin, some transactions’ outputs require multiple signatures to
be spent. These transactions are often calledm-of-n multisignature transactions where the triv-
ial approach of building a multi-signature scheme as mentioned above is used. Currently Bitcoin
implementation uses ECDSA signatures [152] to authenticate transactions. However, ECDSA is
complex to be used in multiparty fashion [74, 99], and hence multisignature schemes supporting
key aggregation [113] as well as efficient threshold signature protocols for ECDSA [74, 99]h a v e
beenproposedtoaddressthisissue.Ingeneral,amultisignatureschemewithkeyaggregationdif-
fersfromtheoriginaldigitalsignatureschemebyaninteractivesigningprotocolandanadditional
algorithm KAgg that aggregates the public key of the signers into a single public key. At the end
of theSign protocol the output is a single signatureσ on a messagem. Similar functionality as
in multisignatures can be achieved by an aggregate signature scheme that was introduced in [28].
However,themaindifferencetothemultisignatureisgivenbyanon-interactivesigningalgorithm
that is run by each of then signers Si individually on a different messagemi, and all individual
signaturesσi arepublicly aggregatedintoσ.
Lattice-basedapproach. ElBansarkhaniandSturm [ 62] constructa lattice-basedmultisignature
derived from the GLP signature [80], a variant of the Lyubashevsky-Schnorr Fiat-Shamir with
rejectionsamplingsignature[ 103]basedontheP-LWE(akaRing-LWE)andRing-SISlatticeprob-
lems (we note, though, that recent work pointed out that this protocol’s security proof has a gap,
which implies its provable security relies on a non-standard variant of the Ring-LWE problem).
The scheme has a three-round multi-signing protocol, in which the commitments and responses
ofeachsignerintheprotocolarecompressedbysummation,exploitingthehomomorphicproperty
of the P-LWE and P-SIS problem for verification. Each ofN cosigners may reject their responses
in the rejection sampling step, which leads to re-starting the full protocol for all signers—this re-
quires the rejection probability of each signer to beN times smaller than in the one-signer GLP
signature, for the same overall signing acceptance probability. The signature length isO(logN)
asymptotically for largeN, while for smallerN there is a linear component inN that grows by
2λ bits per signer for security parameterλ-bit. Concrete signature lengths in [62]a r e4.7K Bf o r
N = 5 and 4.9K Bf o rN = 10 at 120-bit security level (compared to 1.1K Bf o rt h eN = 1G L P
signature at 100-bit security level [80]). However, there is no compression mechanism for the co-
signer public keys. Recent work [51] pointed out a gap in the security proof of the multisignature
in [62], which implies that its provable securityrelies on a non-standardvariant of the Ring-LWE
problem.Thepaper[ 51]alsogivestwomodifiedmultisignatureschemesthatfixthisproblemand
have a security proof from standard MLWE/MSIS assumptions at the cost of lower efficiency and
longersignaturelength:athree-roundsigningprotocolthataddsanadditionalrandomizedhomo-
morphic commitment computation in signing and verification, and a two-round signing protocol
thatalsoembedsatrapdoorinthehomomorphiccommitmentscheme.Thepaper[ 71]givesavari-
ant of the scheme [62] with a security proof in the quantum random oracle model and additional
parameter constraints, but similarly to [62], its security proof also relies on an (explicitly stated)
non-standard "rejected MLWE" assumption. Finally, the paper [108] gives a variant of [62]w i t ha
lower signing rejection probability and shorter signatures, but, as pointed out in [51], its security
proof also appears to require (an even stronger) non-standard "rejected MLWE" assumption.
Doroz et al. [59] construct aggregate signature schemes MMSAT and MMSATK derived from
the one-signer PASS signature [84]. Security is based on a more structured variant of the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:14 M. Buser et al.
PLWE/RingLWE and Ring-SIS problems introduced in [84] called the Partial Fourier Recovery
Problem (aka Vandermonde-LWE and Vandermonde-SIS). In this problem the random matrix un-
derlying the LWE/SIS problems is replaced by a partial Vandermonde (aka partial NTT) trans-
form matrix over the underlying polynomial ring. The schemes assume a non-interactive signing
protocol where each ofN cosigners signs independently using the PASS scheme. In MMSAT,N
signatures are aggregated using a short linear combination of responses from the original PASS
Fiat-Shamir signatures, with short linear combination coefficients determined by a hashing pro-
cess. The aggregate signature length is further reduced using a linear mapT to compress the
commitments, resulting in an overallO(logN) +2λN. The MMSATK scheme additionally allows
aggregation of theN signer public keys by compressing each key using a linear map; the re-
sulting aggregated key length is still linear inN but with a much smaller proportionality con-
stant, reported as≈ 157 bytes per signer at a 128-bit security level (compared to 4.3K Bp e r
signer for PASS). A concrete aggregated signature size of 36 bytes at 128-bit security level is
reported in [59]. However, it was recently pointed out [31] that the compressing linear mapT
used in MMSAT and MMSATK implies that the security of these aggregate signatures relies on
the hardness of a problem we callT-Vandermonde-SIS, a variant of Vandermonde-SIS but with
significantly reduced security against lattice attacks with the parameter choices in [59]. Conse-
quently,onlythe"response"partofthesignaturecanbesecurelyaggregated,notthe"commitment"
part. Due to a similar issue, the aggregatable signature from M-LWE and M-SIS problems con-
structed in [31] also does not produce substantially shorter signatures than concatenated regular
signatures.
Multivariate approach.The firstsequential aggregate signature (SAS)schemebasedon mul-
tivariate quadratic polynomials was proposed in [10]. The construction deploys multiple signers,
whereeachofthemsignsadifferentmessageandallsignaturesaresequentiallyaggregatedintoa
single signature, which benefits from a shorter size than a simple concatenation of the individual
signatures.TheconstructionofanSASschemeisinstantiatedfromanHFEv-signatureschemein-
troducedin[ 124],wheretheresultingSASlengthonlyslightlyextendsthesignaturelengthofthe
standard HFEv- [125]. This construction enables high compression rates and therefore achieves
very short sizes of the signature. For instance, in presence of 20 signers and an 80-bit security
level,thesignaturesizeisabout254bits.Itisremarkablethatthecompressionlengthfora120-bit
security level is even higher than in the 80-bit scenario. However, the main disadvantage in the
case of a 120-bit security level is the considerably larger size of the public keys. The security of
SAS is based on the hardness of the MQ problem, which for a given set of multivariate quadratic
polynomials requires to find a vector⃗x such that all polynomials evaluate to zero in this vector
⃗x. In terms of the signature size, multivariate SAS construction in [10] proves to be more suitable
than other SAS constructions from lattice-based cryptography.
Discussion. Currently there are no known hash-based, isogeny-based, or code-based construc-
tions of multisignatures or aggregate signatures.
Among the lattice-based multisignature constructions, the scheme of [62] gives short signa-
tures but relies on non-standard variants of lattice problems. For more security confidence, we
would recommend the scheme of [51], which relies on standard polynomial (ring) SIS and LWE
lattice problems; the multisignature length scales logarithmically with the number of signers sim-
ilar to [62], although its concrete signature lengths are not evaluated. Both those lattice multisig-
nature schemes do not support key aggregation. It is an open problem to construct lattice-based
aggregate signatures (i.e., supporting public aggregation) that are substantially shorter than con-
catenated regular signatures and support key aggregation. The multivariate construction of [10]
isbasedonaknownHFEv-variantoftheMQproblemandgivestheshortestaggregatesignatures
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:15
onlyslightlylongerthanstandardHFEv-signaturesbutrequiressequentialaggregation,doesnot
support key aggregation, and has quite large public keys. See Table1 for a summary.
Themainapplicationofmulti-andaggregatesignaturesinblockchainsisuseraccountmanage-
ment, where authorizing payments requires multiple users to sign on the same message in their
individual apps (such as mobile wallet). Given the use case, the current best length (in the order
of bytes) and computation time (a few milliseconds or even less) are considered acceptable in the
deployment.
4.2 Consensus Efficiency: Threshold Signature
Ak-out-of-N thresholdsignaturescheme—firstintroducedbyDesmedtandFrankel[ 57]—isavari-
ant of a digital signature scheme in which signing authority is split amongN users in such a way
that anyk of them can construct signatures, while any group ofk −1 of fewer users cannot. The
idea is built upon earlier works of Blakley [24] and Shamir [141], which introduced(threshold) se-
cretsharingschemes :schemesinwhichasecretcanbesplitamong N usersinsuchawaythatany
k ofthemcanrecoverthatsecretwhileany k−1orfewerofthemhavenoinformationwhatsoever
about the secret (in the sense that those shares could correspond to any possible value of the se-
cret). The correctness and security definitions for threshold signatures are mostly the same as for
ordinary digital signature schemes; the main difference is that in the definition of unforgeability,
we require that nok −1 or fewer colluding malicious users can produce a signature on a message
they have not seen signed before—see [75] for the complete details.
Lattice-based approach.Cozzo and Smart [46] investigated threshold variants of the NIST PQC
signature schemes, constructed using a combination of secure MPC techniques with linear secret
sharingtoallowthesignerstojointlycomputeasharingofthesignature.However,fortheFalcon,
Dilithium, and qTesla lattice-based signature schemes, this results in signing protocols involving
multiple rounds of communication with relatively slow signing runtimes. An earlier theoretical
approachin[ 16]givesthresholdsigningprotocolsforGPV-typetrapdoorlattice-basedsignatures
but relies on inefficient generic MPC techniques for offline and key generation Gaussian sam-
pling.AnothertheoreticalapproachbyBonehet al.[ 27]introducedthresholdsignaturesbuiltfrom
thresholdFully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE)techniques. In this approach, the public key
contains an FHE encryption of the signing key, and the FHE decryption key is shared among the
signers; the signing protocol involves each signer performing a homomorphic evaluation of the
signing circuit followed by a partial decryption with its share of the FHE decryption key. When
instantiated with lattice-based signatures and FHE schemes, a major efficiency bottleneck in [27]
arisesfromtheneedto"smudge"thepartialdecryptionswithnoisemagnitudeexponentiallylarge
in the security parameterλ, which leads to long partial signatures of length˜O(λ3).
Isogeny-based approach.De Feo and Meyer [53] constructed the first isogeny-based threshold
signaturein2019.Likemanyotherisogeny-basedsignatureschemes,thisschemeisbasedonCSI-
FiSh[20].Thekeyideasoftheschemearethatthestructureofahardhomogeneousspace[ 45]with
cyclicgroupactionallowsto(1)constructastraightforwarddistributedgroupactioncomputation
protocol,(2)applytheZKPconstructionasin[ 20,Section5],and(3)useHarn’s“secretsharingin
theexponents”construction[ 82]tosplittheproofofknowledgeauthorityina k-out-of-N fashion.
Applying the Fiat-Shamir transform to the resultingk-out-of-N threshold proof of knowledge
protocol yields the desired threshold signature. Despite being based on robust and versatile clas-
sical primitives, the lack of ring structure in the exponent stands in the way of realizing certain
desirable properties, such as the ability to detect malicious participants (as in [75], for instance);
theabilitytodoawaywiththetrusteddealer,asin[ 126];ortheabilitytouseacentral“combiner”
to construct a signature, rather than requiring parties to operate sequentially online. As well, the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:16 M. Buser et al.
schemeislimitedbytheabilityofparametergenerationsinceatpresent,thebest-knownalgorithm
to generate parameter sets for CSI-FiSh-like protocols takes exponential classical time. However,
parameter generation can be done efficiently on a quantum computer, making such schemes po-
tentially useful in the “post-post-quantum” setting. Finally, to prove the security of their scheme,
theauthorsuseatheoremofGennaroet al.[ 75],whichrequiresthattheirunderlyingthresholdse-
cretsharingschemebasedonthehardnessofthe powerdecisionalDiffie-Hellmangroupaction
problem(Power DDH)be simulatable.
In 2020 Cozzo and Smart proposed Sashimi [47], an isogeny-based threshold signature scheme
that achieves security against active adversaries. Like the protocol of De Feo and Meyer, this
scheme also requires the structure of cl(O) to be known, and so can only presently be instanti-
ated for the CSIDH-512 parameter set. The protocol essentially follows the first two steps of the
protocolofDeFeoandMeyer,withaddedZKPsofthekinddescribedinSection 4toensurethatpar-
ticipants are constructing the intermediate curves honestly; it is these ZKPs that give the scheme
active security. Both schemes requireO(k) rounds of communication for thresholds of sizek.
Multivariate approach.The most practical among the interactive threshold protocols designed
by Cozzo and Smart [46] using general secure MPC techniques is a threshold signing protocol for
the LUOV multivariate-based signature scheme [21] from the NIST PQC process. The interactive
LUOVsigningprotocolof[ 46]forthreepartiesrunsinsixcommunicationroundsandisestimated
in [46] to take about 1.3 seconds to generate a signature, assuming typical LAN communication
latency, for a 231-bit quantum security level parameter set.
Discussion. Wenotethattherearenocode-basedconstructionsofstandardthresholdsignatures.
A lattice-based threshold signature by Boneh et al. [27] is less efficient due to large smudging
errors.
Recently, two isogeny-based threshold signature schemes were proposed: De Feo-Meyer and
Sashimi. They have similar design of making CSI-FiSh into a threshold scheme. In both, the sig-
nature is produced more toward a ring signature fashion, with each signer required to accept and
receive a message. The main simplification in Sashimi is that a Replicated Secret Sharing Scheme
isused.Thatis,theresultingsharing(foragivenqualifiedset)istreatedasafullthresholdsharing.
The MQ-based LUOV threshold signing protocol [46] has potential practicality issues due to the
interactive six-round signing process. For our recommendation, see Table1.
Thresholdsignaturesarewidelyconsideredasagoodwaytoreducethenetworkoverhead(w.r.t.
thenumberofbitstotransfer).Forexample,aleaderinaconsensusscheme(suchasHotstuff[ 155]
and Damysus [55]) would need to collect and broadcast a quorum of votes/signatures, where the
number of bits to transfer has complexity ofO(N) complexity. However, the deployment barrier
for using threshold signatures is mainly the time it takes to generate a signature (which includes
steps to generate and disseminate signature shares to reconstruct a full signature).
4.3 Empowering Scriptless Blockchain: Adaptor Signature
Adaptor signatures are a relatively new concept introduced initially as scriptless scripts by
Poelstra [133]. They extend a digital signature such that first a “pre-signature” based on some
conditionisgenerated.Then,whoeverisinpossessionofawitnessfortheconditioncanadaptthe
pre-signature to create a full signature. Upon completion of the full signature, a secret value (in
particular,awitnesstothecondition)isrevealed.Theconditionsaredefinedbyahardrelationon
a publicstatement and a secretwitness such as the knowledge of a discrete log secret or a preim-
age of a hash function. The complete signature is simply an ordinary signature output that can
beverifiedastheoriginalsignaturescheme.Asaresult,anordinarysignatureiscreatedattheend
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:17
Table 1. Summary of State-of-the-art Post-quantum Exotic Signature Schemes
Type Scheme PQ Security Quantum Sign./Ver. (ms) Signature Asymptotic
Type Assumption 4 Security Time at 3GHz Length (KB) Complexity
Multi- and
Aggregate
Signatures5
[62] Lattice R-SIS & R-LWE 6 120 bits 0.84/0.15 0.49 ( N = 10) O(logN)
[51] Lattice M-SIS & M-LWE 128 bits N/E N/E O(logN)
MMSAT [59] Lattice T-Vand.-SIS ⊘& -LWE 128 bits N/E 0.036 ( N = 103) O(N)
MQSAS [10] MQ HFEv- MQ 120 bits 4.18/N/E 0.004 ( N = 10) O(N)
Threshold
Signatures7
Falcon MPC [46] Lattice NTRU & R-SIS 108 bits >5,700/0.03 0.67 O(1)
De Feo-Meyer [53] Isogeny Power DDH 60 bits 722/722 0.560 O(1)
Sashimi [47] Isogeny Power DDH 60 bits 5 .66×105/280 1.77 O(k)
LUOV MPC [46] MQ LUOV MQ 231 bits 1,300 8/22 3.1 O(1)
Adaptor
Signatures
LAS [63] Lattice M-SIS & M-LWE 128 bits 0.22/0.08 9 1.5810 N/A11
O-IAS [145] Isogeny GAIP 60 bits 86.7/93.3 19.0 (Pre-sig.) N/A
0.956 (Sig.)
Blind
Signatures
[83] Lattice R-SIS 128 bits N/E 12 7730 N/A
UBSS [107] Isogeny DSSP ⊘& 1MSSCDH⊘ N/E13 N/E N/E N/A
DVBS[ 138] Isogeny Decisional SSI-T ⊘ 128 bits N/E ≈1.75 N/A
CFS [25] Code Decisional SD 82 bits N/E 3100 N/A
RankSign [25] Code Decisional SD 100 bits N/E 200 N/A
[131] MQ Rainbow ⊘ 128 bits 19/5,505 28.5 N/A
Ring
Signatures14
DualRing-LB [160] Lattice M-SIS & M-LWE 128 bits 3/1 15 516 O(N)
MatRing [64,66,67] Lattice M-SIS & M-LWE 128 bits 10/3 11 O(log1.7 N)
SMILE [105] Lattice M-SIS & M-LWE 128 bits N/E 16 O(logN)
Calamari [19] Isogeny Decisional CSIDH 60 bits ≈106 7 O(logN)
[92] Hash MPC-in-the-head 128 bits 2,000/2,000 17 17818 O(logN)
[56] Hash MPC-in-the-head 128 bits N/E 2,125 O(logN)
[161] Code SD 63.3 bits N/E 0.208 (N = 10) N/A
[50]19 Code GD/GPBD 80 bits N/E 0.587 N/A(N = 10,ℓ= 9)20
[33]21 Code GSD 128 bits N/E 397 (N = 10)22 N/A
Ringrainbow [118]23 MQ Rainbow ⊘ 128 bits N/E 0.83 (N = 10) N/A
[130]24 MQ MQ-Problem 80 bits N/E 324 (N = 10) N/A
4Thosemarkedwith ⊘indicatetheassumptionsthathaverecentlybeenbroken(asymptoticallyorpractically).Thisrenders
the corresponding schemes insecure, which is indicated by striking through the scheme’s name or citation.
5The aggregate signature lengths are per signer at the indicated numberN of signers.
6Duetoagapinthesecurityproofof[ 62]pointedoutin[ 51],provablesecurityreliesonanon-standardvariantofMLWE.
7Metrics are reported for thresholds of size 2 unless otherwise indicated. Asympt. complexity reported is a function of the
thresholdk.
8Thisestimateisforasix-roundinteractivesecurecomputationthree-partysigningprotocol( k = 3)basedontypicalLAN
latency.
9We estimate the runtimes ofLAS as 2×of those of Dilithium [61].
10This is an estimate size under Bai-Galbraith [9] and Dilithium [61] compression techniques. Also note that Dilithium
parameters are more conservative and at a higher security level than those ofLAS.
11"N/A" means "not applicable."
12"N/E" means "not evaluated by the authors" and we are unable to estimate.
13The 1MSSCDH assumption is broken in [115]. However, a flaw in the security proof of [107] means that the break does
not necessarily imply a polynomial-time attack on UBSS. Its security level is currently unknown.
14Metrics are reported for rings of sizeN = 32 unless otherwise stated.
15WeestimatetheruntimesofDualRing-LBasone-thirdsofthoseof MatRing.[160]claimsDualRing-LBis5 ×fasterthan
MatRing.
16ItmaybepossibletoreducethesignaturelengthofDualRing-LBusingBai-Galbraith[ 9]andDilithium[ 61]compression
techniques.
17This signing/verifying time has been given for a ring of sizeN = 128.
18This signature size has been approximated thanks to the formula given in [92].
19The scheme in [50]i sa threshold ring signature.
20In [50] the signature size is given as 675N −228ℓ.
21The scheme in [33]i salinkable ring signature.
22In [33] the signature size is provided as 317800N.
23Since in the first construction [151] the authors did not provide any efficiency analysis, we provide here the parameters
for the later construction [118], which is alinkable ring signature scheme.
24The scheme in [130]i sathreshold ring signature.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:18 M. Buser et al.
of the two-party interaction in the adaptor signature. In particular for the blockchain application,
the miners simply verify the ordinary signature without realizing it may be an adaptor signature
output.Atthesametime,thetwopartiesinvolvedintheadaptorsignaturegenerationcanembed
a condition that is not limited by the blockchain’s scripting language.
There are mainly three advantages of adaptor signatures: (1) on-chain cost reduction, (2) im-
proved fungibility of transactions, and (3) provision of extra capabilities beyond the blockchain’s
scriptinglanguage.Morespecifically,asadaptorsignatureinteractionhappensoff-chainandthus
theconditionisnotpublishedon-chainseparately,thereisnoadditionalon-chainstorageandver-
ificationcosts.Thisfungibilitypropertyisused,forexample,toobscurepaymentchannelnetwork
transactions among regular transactions [110]. Finally, adaptor signatures bring about enhanced
functionalities to blockchains with a limited scripting language. These advantages have been uti-
lized in various applications such as atomic swaps [132], payment channel networks [7,110], and
discrete log contracts [60].
As formalized in [7], an adaptor signature has four algorithms (AS.PreSign,AS.PreVerify,
AS.Adapt,AS.Ext), where the first one is used to create a pre-signature using the signer’s secret
key,themessage,andthepublicstatement,andthesecondisitspublicverificationalgorithm.We
then haveAS.Adapt function, which completes a pre-signature to a full signature using a secret
witness. Finally, theAS.Ext algorithm takes a pair of (signature, pre-signature) on the same state-
mentandoutputsawitnessforthestatement.Asdefinedin[ 7],therearethreemainpropertiesof
an adaptor signature: (1) unforgeability, (2) pre-signature adaptability, and (3) witness extractabil-
ity. The unforgeability of an adaptor signature is very similar to that of an ordinary signature but
gives the adversary access to a pre-signature on the target message. Even in this case, the adver-
sary is expected to fail in forging an adaptor signature output. In pre-signature adaptability, we
expect any user to be able to adapt a valid pre-signatureˆσ as long as the user knows a witness
to the statement used to generate the pre-signatureˆσ. Finally, witness extractability informally
requires that a valid witness can be extracted from any given valid pre-signature/signature pair.
Lattice-based approach.The first post-quantum adaptor signature, namedLAS, was proposed
byEsginet al.in[ 63].ThisbuildsontheDilithiumsignaturescheme[ 61],athird-roundsignature
candidateinNIST’sPost-QuantumCryptographystandardizationprocess.BothDilithiumand LAS
relyonthetwowell-knowncomputationallatticeproblems,namelyModule-SISandModule-LWE.
The efficiency ofLAS is similar to that of Dilithium.
In[63],theauthorsfirstextendtheformalmodelfortheadaptorsignaturetohandletheso-called
“knowledge gap” in lattice-based ZKPs. In particular, the proposal in [63] only satisfiesweak pre-
signatureadaptability,whichmeansthat extractedwitnessesarenotguaranteedtobesuccessfulin
adaptingotherpre-signatures.Thislimitationleadstoamorecarefulanalysisoftheapplicationof
LAS intheblockchainapplicationsettings.Nevertheless,theauthorsof[ 63]showhowtoovercome
these challenges without incurring additional on-chain costs.
Isogeny-basedapproach. Theonlypresentlyknownisogeny-basedadaptorsignatureis IAS (and
its optimized variantO-IAS), proposed in 2020 by Tairi et al. [145]. The scheme, like many other
isogeny-basedsignatureschemes,isadaptedfromCSI-FiSh,whichitselfisobtainedfromapplying
the Fiat-Shamir transform [69] to an isogeny-based Schnorr-like identification protocol [140]a s
discussedinSection 4.IncontrasttopriorSchnorr-basedadaptorsignatures[ 7],thelackofgroup
structureon Eℓℓp(O)preventsastraightforwardconstructioninthissetting.Theauthorsovercome
thisobstructionbyintroducingadditionalZKPstotheprotocolthatessentiallyallowparticipants
toverifythatthesignerisbehavingcorrectlybyextendingtheprotocolin[ 20,Section5]toprove
that certain tuples(E1,E′
1,E2,E′
2) satisfy∃[a] ∈cl(O) s.t.E′
i = [a]∗Ei fori = 1,2.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:19
Discussion. To the best of our knowledge,LAS and IAS are the only currently proposed post-
quantum adaptor signatures, and their differences are emblematic of the differences between
lattice-based and isogeny-based protocols in general. At similar security levels one expectsLAS
to have much faster signing and verification times, but larger signatures and pre-signatures—for
concrete values for specific parameter sets, see Table1. With the application of well-known com-
pressiontechniquesinthelatticesettingto LAS,thegapinsignaturesizegetssmaller,thoughthey
remain larger than inIAS. The security ofLAS is based on the very well-known and extensively
studied M-SIS and M-LWE problems, and so we are relatively confident in its claimed security
level. ForIAS, security is based on GAIP for the specific case of cl(O) acting onEℓℓp(O); the dif-
ficulty of this problem for specific CSIDH primesp is still being studied, though it is generally
agreed that CSIDH-512 does not offer the 128 bits of quantum security required for NIST level 1;
the current state-of-the-art estimates indicate that this parameter set offers only 60 bits of quan-
tumsecurity[ 128].Thisproblemisexacerbatedbythedifficultyofcomputingthegroupstructure
of cl(O), which is required for CSI-FiSh [20] and, consequently, for [145]. In light of these facts,
werecommend LAS overIAS,unlesssignaturesizeisofutmostimportanceandtherelativelylow
60-bit security level provided by CSIDH-512 is adequate for the application.
Oneofthemainapplicationsofadaptorsignaturesisenablinglayer2protocols,suchaspayment
channel, on scriptless blockchains. Given that payment channel parties (the payer and the payee)
only need to interact with each other off-chain, given their frequency of payments, the current
computingtimeisacceptable.However,thesizeofsignaturesthatarerecordedonthechainshould
be as small as possible to reduce the size of transactions and blockchains. Given the fact thatLAS
producessignaturesassmallasasimilarordinarylatticesignaturesuchasDilithium[ 61],wefind
LAS to be an acceptable solution for post-quantum blockchain.
4.4 Privacy: Blind Signature and Ring Signature
4.4.1 Blind Signatures. Blind signatures—introduced by Chaum in 1983 for use in untraceable
payment systems [42]—are a variant of digital signatures in which a messagem chosen by the
signature requester can be signed by the signer who knows the secret key, without revealing the
message to the signer. There are a number of formalisms that encode the intuition of a blind
signaturescheme;wedescribetheformalismthatappearsin,forinstance,[ 3,Definition1].Inthis
setting, KeyGen and Verify are as in a digital signature, whileSign is now aninteractive protocol
betweenarequester(whoknows m)andthesigner(whoknows sk).Attheendofthe Sign protocol,
the requester should have a signatureσ onm, while the signer should come away not knowing
anything aboutm. Just as in an ordinary digital signature we have a notion of correctness and
unforgeability, which are essentially unchanged, for a blind signature scheme we also require the
blindnessproperty,whichshouldencodethesigner’slackofknowledgeof m;notably,wewantthis
lack of knowledge to extend to cases when the signer is allowed to choose the secret key/public
key pair, even when she knows that the message comes from a small collection of messages that
she herself has chosen before the interaction.
In[3],blindnessisformalizedbasedonanindistinguishabilitygame.Anadversary A(actingas
asigner)choosesasecretkey/publickeypair (sk,pk) andtwomessages m0,m1,andtheninteracts
withtworequesters:onewhorequestsasignatureon m0,andonewhorequestsasignatureon m1.
Theseinteractionsoccurinarandomorder;oncetheinteractionsaredone, Amustguessinwhich
order they interacted with the requesters. There are a few closely related “levels” of blindness,
depending on the running time and success probabilityAcan be allowed to have; formally, we
say that the scheme has:
•Computationalblindness ifaPPTadversarycannotwintheblindnessgamewithprobability
non-negligibly greater than1
2
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:20 M. Buser et al.
•Statistical blindnessif anAwhose running time is unbounded cannot win the blindness
game with probability non-negligibly greater than1
2
•Perfect blindnessif anAwhose running time is unbounded cannot win the blindness game
with probability different from1
2.
Blindsignaturesareusedtoprovideunlinkabilityandanonymityoftransactionsinblockchain.
For instance, BlindCoin [148] uses blind signatures to hide the mapping between a user’s input
and output addresses from the mix.
Lattice-basedapproach. Thefirstlattice-basedblindsignaturewasconstructedbyRückert[ 137].
The construction was based on the famous SIS-based Lyubashevsky’s identification scheme [102].
Ononehand,theGaussianrejectionsampling[ 103]playsacentralroleinBLAZE[ 3]asitisused
insteadofuniformdistributiontoachievesmallersizes.Ontheotherhand,BLAZEisnotone-more
unforgeableandthisdeficiencyhasbeenaddressedinBLAZE+[ 4],whichreducesthecorrectness
error (inherent in lattice constructions) by a novel approach that allows performing multiple in
parallel rejection samplings. This hugely reduces the communication complexity.
Otherlattice-basedblindsignatureswithotherfeaturesalsoappearedintheliteratureincluding
[30,96,123].AlltheaboveschemesrelyonananalysisbyRückert[ 137]toarguethatacollisioncan
be found with non-negligible probability when rewinding. However, such an analysis was found
tobefaultyin[ 83],implyingalloftheaforementionedschemeshaveasubtleflawintheirsecurity
proofs.Theauthorsof[ 83]thenproposedanewthree-roundlattice-basedblindsignaturescheme,
whose security can be proved, in the random oracle model, from the standard SIS assumption.
Their scheme is only blind in the weaker honest signer model [90] as compared to the malicious
signer model [70].
There has been another line of research on constructing lattice-based blind signatures based
on preimage sampleable trapdoor functions [73, 98, 162]. All these schemes are also shown to be
insecure by [4] as well.
Isogeny-based approach.In contrast to all other isogeny-based protocols in this work, isogeny-
basedblindsignaturesusethefullsupersingularisogenygraph,ratherthanthecomplexmultiplica-
tiongraph.Therearetwoconstructions:thefirst,UBSS,givenin[ 107],buildsupontheundeniable
signature scheme of [89] and unfortunately inherits a flaw in its security proof from [89], given
in [115]. Because the security of this protocol is in question, we do not discuss it further here.
The second construction, given in [138], improves upon the construction of [107]i nt w om a i n
ways: (1) it is not vulnerable to the attack of [115], and (2) it is a designated verifier signature
scheme, rather than an undeniable signature scheme. More intuitively, point (2) means that sig-
nature verification in the protocol of [138] does not require an interactive protocol involving the
signer,thoughsignaturesarestill non-transferable;thatis,theycanonlybeverifiedbyadesignated
party(the designatedverifier ).Thisprotocolrequirespartiestocomputeisogeniesoffourcoprime
degrees: one prime power degree for hashing messages, blinding/unblinding, signing, and verify-
ing. Generally speaking, in SIDH-like protocols the size of the underlying prime field increases
with the number of prime power isogenies required. In this protocol, achievingλ bits of security
(bothforunforgeabilityandblindness)requiresaprimeofatleast7 λbits,whichisrelativelylarge
( c o m p a r e dw i t hS I D H[88] and SIKE [8], which require primes of only 4λ bits to achieveλ bits of
security).
Code-based approach.The first and to the best of our knowledge the only code-based construc-
tionofablindsignaturehasbeenproposedin[ 25].TheconstructionusesaconcatenationofStern-
like ZKPs [144], which enables an authentication protocol for concatenated matrices. The blind
signature is based on the Hamming metric and is obtained by applying the Fiat-Shamir heuristic
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:21
totheauthenticationprotocol.Thesecurityoftheconstructionreliesonthesecurityofatrapdoor
function for thecomputational syndrome decoding (CSD)problem and the soundness of the
underlying ZKP, while for the Hamming metric this trapdoor function is given by the CFS signa-
ture and for the Rank metric it is given by the RankSign protocol [72]. The authors provide the
parameters for rank metric and for Hamming metric, which are practical for the first metric but
lesspracticalforthelatterone.Intermsofthesignaturesize,theinstantiationwiththeHamming
metric is outperformed by the instantiation for the rank metric by multiple times.
Multivariate approach. The first multivariate construction has been proposed in [131]. The
blind signature is obtained by a transformation of Rainbow, an MQ signature scheme and a post-
quantum candidate to the NIST competition. The transformation is achieved by combining the
MQ signature scheme with the MQ-based zero-knowledge identification protocol from [139]. In
terms of security, the scheme achieves the usual blindness property and the universal one-more
unforgeability. Regarding the efficiency, the most costly part for the user is the execution of the
public key generation procedure of the Rainbow signature scheme.
Discussion. Although the incorrect provable lattice-based blind signatures BLAZE [3]a n d
BLAZE+ [4] and their parents [137] can offer practical key and signature sizes (in the order of
only a few kilobytes or in some cases less than 1 KB), the only correct-proof lattice-based blind
signatures[83]haveeithersignaturesizesontheorderofmegabytesorlargekeysduetohomomor-
phic nature of the construction, respectively. Hence, an outstanding open problem is to construct
a practical (in terms of key and signature sizes) and secure (in the malicious signer model) lattice-
based blind signature from standard assumptions. The MQ-based scheme of [131] guarantees the
usual blindness security property and the universal one-more unforgeability. Regarding the effi-
ciency, the most costly part for the user is the execution of the public key generation procedure
of the Rainbow signature scheme. Compared to the existing lattice-based construction [137], this
MQ-based construction benefits from a shorter signature size on one side but on the other side it
requiredlargerpublickeysthanin[ 137].For100bitsofsecurity,[ 131]givesshortersignaturesizes
of17.6KBbutlarger pk sizeof54 .6KBcomparedto200KBand15KB,respectivelyfortheshortest
code-basedblindsignatureRankSign[ 72].Ourfinalrecommendationistouse[ 131],whichenjoys
reasonablekeyandsignaturesizesandisbasedonwell-understoodmultivariateassumptions.For
further performance metrics and the effect of recent attacks on these blind signature proposals,
see Table1.
Given that a number of isogeny-based and multivariate blind signatures have been rendered
insecureduetorecentattacksandthattheremainingonesarequiteinefficient,webelievethereis
a lot of further progress to be done in the area of post-quantum blind signatures. Particularly for
blockchainapplication,onewouldexpecttohavesignificantefficiencyimprovementsbeforethey
can be acceptable for deployment.
4.4.2 Ring Signatures. Ring signatures were first introduced in 2001 by Rivest et al. [135], ini-
tiallytoallowauthoritativebutanonymoussecretleaking,buttheyhavefoundotherapplications
to the blockchain. The rigorous formal definitions were established in [15].
An ordinary ring signature scheme has much the same structure and security requirements as
an ordinary digital signature. The main syntactic difference between the two is that, in a ring
signature scheme, theSign andVerify functions take as input a collection of usersR, called aring.
A signer can sign on behalf of any ring that includes her public key. Any third party can verify
thatasignaturewasgeneratedbyaringmemberonbehalfofthering,buttheverificationprocess
will not reveal any information about which ring member produced the signature.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:22 M. Buser et al.
Correctnessofringsignaturesisanalogoustothatofordinarydigitalsignatures.Theirunforge-
ability is more complicated,since theyare requiredto be unforgeable in the face ofinsider corrup-
tion. Informally, we say that a ring signature isunforgeable with respect to insider corruptionif an
efficient adversary cannot forge a signature on behalf of a ringR∗, even with access to a signing
oracle of each user not inR∗.
Ring signatures must satisfy the additional property ofanonymity (against full key exposure),
which requires that an efficient adversaryAcannot tell which of two userspki0,pki1 in a ringR
producedagivensignature σ onamessage monbehalfof R,evenif Aisgivenaccesstoeachuser’s
secretkey,andevenif Aisallowedtochoose R,m,i0,and i1.Thissecuritydefinitionincludestwo
intuitively important scenarios: (1)insider collusion:no collection of users can determine which
ring member produced a given signature on behalf of the ring; (2)key exposure:if a user’s private
key is revealed, signatures produced by that user cannot be deanonymized.
Linkable ring signatures are a variant of ring signatures introduced in 2004 by Liu et al. [100].
They enhance ring signatures by adding a new functionality—linking—which allows anybody to
determine whether two signatures were produced by the same user, without revealing that user.
This functionality is instantiated as a functionLink, which takes in two signatures and outputs a
bitb indicating whether the signatures were produced by the same user.
This new functionality introduces new correctness and security requirements, i.e.,linkage cor-
rectness: if two signaturesσ0 and σ1 are generated by the same user, thenLink(σ0,σ1) = 1, and
further three properties:
•Linkability: Among anyN +1 signatures, each signed on behalf of rings that are subsets of
a fixed ring ofN users, there must be a linking pair of signatures.
•Linkable anonymity:Given two public keyspk0,pk1 whose corresponding private keys are
sk0,sk1, resp., and two disjoint listsS0,S1 of ring signatures, which containpk0 and pk1,
such that either all those signatures inS0 were constructed usingsk0 and all those inS1
were constructed usings1, or vice versa, no efficient adversary can determine which is the
case.
•Non-frameability against insider collusion:No efficient adversary can produce a new valid
signature that links to any honestly constructed signatureσ, even with access to the secret
key of each user.
In the literature, one often distinguishes (1) logarithmic ring signature, where the signature size
scalespolylogarithmicallyintheringsize N,and(2)linearringsignature,wherethesignaturesize
isO(N).
Lattice-basedapproach. Untilrecently,lattice-basedringsignatureproposalswerefarfromprac-
tical. Then, in 2019, Esgin et al. [65] introduced a substantially more efficient ring signature con-
struction based on Module-SIS and Module-LWE problems and initiated the path toward practi-
cally efficient lattice-based ring signatures. This construction also has the advantage of being of
polylogarithmic size. The blueprint idea in [65] has been greatly improved upon in subsequent
works[64,66,67],wherethesignaturesizewasreducedbyordersofmagnitudeincomparisonto
the state of the art prior to [65]. The shortest proposal in this family is obtained by instantiating
the ring signature in [64] using the techniques in [66, 67], which allow to set parameters signifi-
cantly more efficiently. We call the state-of-the-art proposal resulting from this series of works as
MatRing signature. This proposal also easily extends to thelinkable s e t t i n ga ss h o w ni n[66,67].
Recently, Beullens et al. [19] and Lyubashevsky et al. [105] proposed new approaches to con-
struct ring signatures with instantiations based on Module-SIS and Module-LWE problems. Over-
all,allschemesin[ 19,64,65,67,105]scalepolylogarithmicallyinsignaturesize,butFalafl[ 19]and
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:23
the proposal in [105] scale more efficiently inasymptotic signature size. The practical advantage
ofthelattertwoproposals’concretesignaturesizes,however,isonlyobservedforlargeringsizes
of about 1,000 (and even much larger ring sizes for Falafl). In Table1,w ec o n s i d e rMatRing and
[105] as either one leads to the most practically efficient scheme for any ring size.
There are also some efficient linear-size ring signature proposals: Raptor by Lu et al. [101]a n d
DualRing-LB by Yuen et al. [160]. Despite being linear-sized, DualRing-LB signature sizes scale
slowly thanks to its novel approach, which requires a single ZKP response andN challenges for
a ring size ofN users. The advantage comes from the fact that the size of a challenge (at most 32
bytes)issignificantlysmallerthanthesizeofaZKPresponse(afewkilobytes)inthelatticesetting.
Fromthesecurityperspective,althoughRaptorreliesonastronger“NTRU-like”securityassump-
tion, DualRing-LB is based on standard Module-SIS and Module-LWE assumptions. DualRing-LB
produces very short signatures for small- to medium-size rings (see Table1).
Some of the aforementioned works on constructing ring signatures also extend their proposals
tobuildaRingCTprotocol(employedbyMonero),wheretheringsignatureisacoreingredient.A
RingCT protocol[122] allows apayer/spender to transferassetsonblockchainto a payee/recipient
whilepreservingprivacy,i.e.,whilehidingsensitiveinformationsuchaspayer/payeeidentitiesand
transaction amount from third parties. The payer anonymity is achieved by the use of a linkable
ring signature and further advanced ZKPs are employed to construct a full RingCT protocol. Due
to their strong connection to ring signatures, we briefly mention these works below.
The work of Esgin et al. [67] introduced the first practical post-quantum RingCT protocol,
named MatRiCT. More recently, MatRiCT was significantly improved upon by Esgin et al. [66].
The recent protocol, named MatRiCT+ [66], requires significantly less communication and com-
putation and has the important feature that the proof length scales only logarithmically in the
number of input accounts while MatRiCT (as well as other prior post-quantum proposals) scales
linearlyinthat.ConcurrentlywithMatRiCT +,Lyubashevskyetal.[ 105]instantiatedtheMatRiCT
frameworkusingdifferentapproachestorealizetheunderlyingproofs.ForthemostcommonMon-
ero transactions (with two inputs/outputs and ring size ofN = 11), MatRiCT+ and the proposal
in [105] require very similar communication, while MatRiCT+ scales much more efficiently to a
larger number of inputs (which is the second most common setting in Monero).
Hash-based approach.[92] has outlined how to build a ring signature from their proposed zero-
knowledge protocol based on symmetric primitives (more details will be discussed in Section4).
The idea is to based on the (normal) signature proposed in their paper. Key generation chooses a
uniform secret keyk ∈{0,1}κ for some security parameterκ and the corresponding public key
will bey = PRFk(0κ) for some pseudorandom functionPRF. Given a ringR = {yi}N
i=1 of N public
keys,let C bethecircuitthattakesasinputasecretkey k andoutputs1iff PRFk(0κ) =yi forsome
i ∈[1,N].AringsignaturewillthenbeanNIZKPoKofaninput ki suchthat C(ki) = 1.Thesizeof
the signature (i.e., the size of the circuitC in this case) is linear withN, the number of users inR.
Inordertoshortenthesignaturesizetologarithmicin N,[92]furthersuggestedtouseaMerkle
tree and put all the public keysyi as leaves (for simplicity, they assumeN = 2q for some integer
q). The proof further takes an auxiliary valuepath that outputs 1 ifpath is a valid Merkle proof
(with respect to root) for the valuey at leafi. A signature is an NIZKPoK of an input for whichC
evaluates to 1. In this case, the size is only log(N).
Isogeny-basedconstructions. Theonlyisogeny-based(linkable)ringsignaturetodateisCalamari
[19].Atitscoreisasigmaprotocol Π,whichallowsaprovertoproveknowledgeofthesolutionto
oneout ofN instancesE1 = [a1]∗E0,E2 = [a2]∗X0,..., EN = [aN]∗E0 of the GAIP with respect
to the same baseE0, without revealing the indexj∗of the known solution. The signature scheme
is constructed by applying the Fiat-Shamir transform [69].
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:24 M. Buser et al.
To make this into a linkable ring signature, the authors propose to add a tagT = [ai]⋆T0 to
eachsignature,where ⋆isanactionofthegroup G onsomeset T(differentfromand“compatible
with,”inaprecisesense,theaction ∗),and T0 isafixedpublicvalue.Whensigning,thesignerthen
producesaproofofknowledgeoftheelement[ a]suchthat[ a]∗E0 = Ej forsome j,andsuchthat
[a]⋆T0 =T. SinceT0 is fixed, to test whether two signaturesσ1 = (ˆσ1,T1) andσ2 = (ˆσ2,T2) were
generated by the same individual, it suffices to check thatT1 =T2.
Beyond the basics of the scheme we describe here, Calamari makes a number of optimizations
to reduce signature sizes. Calamari signatures are extremely small and scale logarithmically with
ring size; for two-member rings signatures are 3.5 KB, and are 23 KB long for rings of size 221.
However, signing is orders of magnitude slower than for the comparable lattice-based ring signa-
ture Falafl, requiring from 1011 to more than 1013 cycles for signing, compared to Falafl’s 108 to
1010 cycles (depending on ring size). As well, this relatively efficient version of Calamari can only
be instantiated when the group structure of cl(O) is known explicitly; at present, this restricts us
to the CSIDH-512 parameter set (or smaller), which offers only 60 bits of quantum security [128].
Code-based approach.The first code-based ring signature has been proposed in [161]. In terms
of security, the signature is secure under the syndrome decoding problem. The authors achieve a
signaturesizeof144 +126N,wher eN isthenumberofringmembersforasecuritylevelofabout
263.3.Aspecialflavorofringsignatures,a ℓ-out-of-N thresholdringsignature,hasbeenintroduced
in [50]. It allows a set ofℓring members to sign a message without revealing the identities of the
members, with a ring size ofN. The security of the scheme is given in the reductionist security
model and the construction is secure under the hardness of theBounded Distance Decoding
(BDD) problem andGoppa Code Distinguishing (GCD)problem. While the signature size is
small,themaindrawbackofthisconstructionisthelargesizeofpublickeysandtheslowsigning
procedure. The first code-based linkable ring signature has been proposed in [33]. It is achieved
fromaStern-likeprotocol,whichistransformedintoaringsignaturebyapplyingtheFiat-Shamir
transform. The signature size in [33]i s3 9N kBytes, whereN is the number of signers in the ring.
Arecentconstructionofaringsignature [ 34]achievesalso theadditionalpropertyoftraceability,
which allows to identify the user who signs two different messages with respect to the same ring.
Thesecurityofthisconstructionisbasedonthehardnessofthesyndromedecodingproblem.The
signature size is 240N kBytes, which might be too large for many applications.
Multivariateapproach. Thefirstmultivariatequadraticpolynomials-basedringsignaturewasin-
troducedin[ 151].Theschemeachievescompletenessandanonymityagainstfullkeyexposure.A
moreefficientconstructionhasbeenproposedin[ 118].In[ 130]theauthorsprovidedthefirstmul-
tivariate threshold ring signature scheme, which is an extension of the multivariate identification
scheme[139].Eventhoughtheconstructionin[ 130]requiresmoreroundstoachievegivenlevels
of security,the main advantage of the scheme is the shorter signature size than those obtained by
other post-quantum approaches. The construction also achieves provable security, which is rare
in multivariate cryptography.
Discussion. Ring signatures have certain inherent limitations such as requiringO(N) sign-
ing/verification times andO(N) storage/communication of public keys. Such linear barriers pre-
vent their real-life use with large values ofN despite the appealing feature of a higher anonymity
level for increasingN. This is, for example, one of the main reasons Monero cryptocurrency uses
asmallringsizeof N = 11.Asa result,in termsofblockchainapplications,themain desideratum
appears to be optimizing the performance for smallN.
While the most efficient lattice-based and hash-based constructions scale polylogarithmically
in the ring sizeN, code-based constructions can only achieve a linear signature size, which is the
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:25
main drawback of code-based constructions. Finding new techniques to reduce the key and sig-
nature sizes of code-based signatures is an open problem and offers directions for future research.
Isogeny-basedschemesscalelogarithmicallywithringsizebutareslowerthantheirlattice-based
counterparts. Multivariate constructions claim to achieve better efficiency than any other post-
quantum ring signature constructions. For detailed evaluation of these results, see Table1.
The computational speed of existing lattice-based ring signature proposals in the order of mil-
liseconds is well within the requirements of major ring signature applications in the blockchain
setting, such as the RingCT protocol used in Monero. In terms of the signature size, there is of
courseasignificantincreasecomparedtopre-quantumproposals;however,thisoverheadappears
tobeacommoncosttobepaidwhenupgradingtopost-quantumsecurity.Agoalforfuturework
in this area could be to minimize the signature as well as public key lengths as much as possible.
5 CONCLUSION
This work surveys the extensive literature on post-quantum cryptographic schemes crucial for
blockchains.Weparticularlyfocusonexoticsignaturesachievingadvancedfunctionalities,which
enableempoweringfeaturesforblockchain.Foreachpresentedexoticsignature,wehaveincluded
allknownconstructiontechniquesbasedondifferentquantum-safeassumptions(includinglattice-
based, code-based, hash-based, multivariate-polynomial-based, and isogeny-based assumptions)
and a discussion on existing challenges and future research directions for each one in the post-
quantumspace.Wehavealsocomparedtheseexoticsignaturesintermsofthepromisedquantum
security levels, signature generation and verification times, signature size, and the promised as-
ymptotic complexity. We hope our work can help to promote further research on and adoption of
post-quantum cryptography in the blockchain space.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Ajtai. 1996. Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract). InProceedings of the 28th Annual
ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC’96). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, 99–108.
https://doi.org/10.1145/237814.237838
[2] Martin R. Albrecht, Christian Rechberger, Thomas Schneider, Tyge Tiessen, and Michael Zohner. 2015. Ciphers for
MPC and FHE. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’15), Proceedings, Part I (LNCS), Elisabeth Oswald and Marc
Fischlin (Eds.), Vol. 9056. Springer, 430–454.
[3] NabilAlkeilaniAlkadri,RachidElBansarkhani,andJohannesBuchmann.2020.BLAZE:Practicallattice-basedblind
signatures for privacy-preserving applications. InFinancial Cryptography and Data Security, Joseph Bonneau and
Nadia Heninger (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 484–502.
[4] Nabil Alkeilani Alkadri, Rachid El Bansarkhani, and Johannes Buchmann. 2020. On lattice-based interactive pro-
tocols: An approach with less or no aborts. InInformation Security and Privacy, Joseph K. Liu and Hui Cui (Eds.).
Springer International Publishing, Cham, 41–61.
[5] Gavin Andresen. 2011. BIP 0011: M-of-N Standard Transactions.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/BIP_0011.
[6] FrankArute,KunalArya,RyanBabbush,DaveBacon,JosephC.Bardin,RamiBarends,RupakBiswas,SergioBoixo,
Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, David A Buell, et al. 2019. Quantum supremacy using a programmable superconducting
processor.Nature574, 7779 (2019), 505–510.
[7] Lukas Aumayr, Oguzhan Ersoy, Andreas Erwig, Sebastian Faust, Kristina Hostáková, Matteo Maffei, Pedro
Moreno-Sanchez, andSiavashRiahi.2020.Generalizedbitcoin-compatiblechannels. IACRCryptol.ePrintArch. 2020
(2020), 476.
[8] Reza Azarderakhsh, Matthew Campagna, Craig Costello, Luca De Feo, Basil Hess, Aaron Hutchinson, Amir Jalali,
Koray Karabina, Brian Koziel, Brian LaMacchia, Patrick Longa, Michael Naehrig, Geovandro Pereira, Joost Renes,
Vladimir Soukharev, and David Urbanik. 2017.Supersingular Isogeny Key Encapsulation. Technical Report.
[9] Shi Bai and Steven D. Galbraith. 2014. An improved compression technique for signatures based on learning with
errors. InCT-RSA(LNCS), Vol. 8366. Springer, 28–47.
[10] Rachid El Bansarkhani, Mohamed Saied Emam Mohamed, and Albrecht Petzoldt. 2016. MQSAS - A multivariate se-
quentialaggregatesignaturescheme.In InformationSecurity(ISC’16),Proceedings(LNCS) ,MattBishopandAnderson
C. A. Nascimento (Eds.), Vol. 9866. Springer, 426–439.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:26 M. Buser et al.
[11] ItanBarmesandBramBosch.[n.d.].QuantumcomputersandtheBitcoinblockchain. https://www2.deloitte.com/nl/
nl/pages/innovatie/artikelen/quantum-computers-and-the-bitcoin-blockchain.html .
[12] Carsten Baum, Cyprien Delpech de Saint Guilhem, Daniel Kales, Emmanuela Orsini, Peter Scholl, and Greg Za-
verucha.2021.Banquet:ShortandfastsignaturesfromAES.In Public-KeyCryptography(PKC’21)-Proceedings,Part
I (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Juan A. Garay (Ed.), Vol. 12710. Springer, 266–297.
[13] Eli Ben-Sasson, Iddo Bentov, Yinon Horesh, and Michael Riabzev. 2018. Scalable, transparent, and post-quantum
secure computational integrity.IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch.2018 (2018), 46.
[14] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Michael Riabzev, Nicholas Spooner, Madars Virza, and Nicholas P. Ward. 2019.
Aurora: Transparent succinct arguments for R1CS. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’19), Proceedings, Part I
(LNCS), Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen (Eds.), Vol. 11476. Springer, 103–128.
[15] Adam Bender, Jonathan Katz, and Ruggero Morselli. 2006. Ring signatures: Stronger definitions, and constructions
without random oracles. InTCC (LNCS), Vol. 3876. Springer, 60–79.
[16] Rikke Bendlin, Sara Krehbiel, and Chris Peikert. 2013. How to share a lattice trapdoor: Threshold protocols for
signatures and (H)IBE. InACNS (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 7954. Springer, 218–236.
[17] Elwyn R. Berlekamp, Robert J. McEliece, and Henk C. A. van Tilborg. 1978. On the inherent intractability of certain
coding problems (corresp.).IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory24, 3 (1978), 384–386.https://doi.org/10.1109/TIT.1978.1055873
[18] WardBeullens.2022.Breakingrainbowtakesaweekendonalaptop. IACRCryptol.ePrintArch. (2022),214(toappear
at CRYPTO’22).
[19] Ward Beullens, Shuichi Katsumata, and Federico Pintore. 2020. Calamari and Falafl: Logarithmic (linkable) ring sig-
natures from isogenies and lattices. InAdvances in Cryptology (ASIACRYPT’20), Shiho Moriai and Huaxiong Wang
(Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 464–492.
[20] Ward Beullens, Thorsten Kleinjung, and Frederik Vercauteren. 2019. CSI-FiSh: Efficient isogeny based signatures
throughclassgroupcomputations.In AdvancesinCryptology(ASIACRYPT’19) ,StevenD.GalbraithandShihoMoriai
(Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 227–247.
[21] WardBeullens,BartPreneel,AlanSzepieniec,andFrederikVercauteren.2019.LUOV:Signatureschemeproposalfor
NIST PQC project.Submission to the NIST’s post-quantum cryptography standardization process(2019).
[22] Rishabh Bhadauria, Zhiyong Fang, Carmit Hazay, Muthuramakrishnan Venkitasubramaniam, Tiancheng Xie, and
Yupeng Zhang. 2020. Ligero++: A new optimized sublinear IOP. InProceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security. 2025–2038.
[23] Bitcoin Wiki. 2022. Script. Retrieved January 31, 2022, fromhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Script.
[24] G.R.Blakley.1979.Safeguardingcryptographickeys.In ManagingRequirementsKnowledge,InternationalWorkshop
on. IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, 313.https://doi.org/10.1109/AFIPS.1979.98
[25] OlivierBlazy,PhilippeGaborit,JulienSchrek,andNicolasSendrier.2017.Acode-basedblindsignature.In 2017IEEE
International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT’17). IEEE, 2718–2722.
[26] Dan Boneh, Özgür Dagdelen, Marc Fischlin, Anja Lehmann, Christian Schaffner, and Mark Zhandry. 2011. Random
oracles in a quantum world. InAdvances in Cryptology (ASIACRYPT’11), Dong Hoon Lee and Xiaoyun Wang (Eds.).
Springer, Berlin, 41–69.
[27] DanBoneh,RosarioGennaro,StevenGoldfeder,AayushJain,SamKim,PeterM.R.Rasmussen,andAmitSahai.2018.
Threshold cryptosystems from threshold fully homomorphic encryption. InAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’18) -
Proceedings, Part I. 565–596.
[28] DanBoneh,CraigGentry,BenLynn,andHovavShacham.2003.Aggregateandverifiablyencryptedsignaturesfrom
bilinear maps. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’03), Proceedings (LNCS), Eli Biham (Ed.), Vol. 2656. Springer,
416–432.
[29] Dan Boneh and Mark Zhandry. 2013. Quantum-secure message authentication codes. InAdvances in Cryptology
(EUROCRYPT’13), Thomas Johansson and Phong Q. Nguyen (Eds.). Springer, Berlin, 592–608.
[30] SamuelBouaziz-Ermann,SébastienCanard,GautierEberhart,GuillaumeKaim,AdelineRoux-Langlois,andJacques
Traoré. 2020. Lattice-based (Partially) Blind Signature without Restart. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/260.
(2020).https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/260.
[31] KatharinaBoudgoustandAdelineRoux-Langlois.2021.Non-InteractiveHalf-AggregateSignaturesBasedonModule
Lattices - A First Attempt. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2021/263. (2021).https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/263.
[32] Zvika Brakerski, Craig Gentry, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. 2014. (Leveled) fully homomorphic encryption without
bootstrapping. ACM Trans. Comput. Theory6, 3 (2014), 13:1–13:36.
[33] PedroBrancoandPauloMateus.2018.Acode-basedlinkableringsignaturescheme.In ProvableSecurity(ProvSec’18),
Proceedings (LNCS), Joonsang Baek, Willy Susilo, and Jongkil Kim (Eds.), Vol. 11192. Springer, 203–219.
[34] Pedro Branco and Paulo Mateus. 2019. A traceable ring signature scheme based on coding theory. InPost-Quantum
Cryptography - 2019 Revised Selected Papers (LNCS), Jintai Ding and Rainer Steinwandt (Eds.), Vol. 11505. Springer,
387–403.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:27
[35] CarloBrunetta,BeiLiang,andAikateriniMitrokotsa.2019.Code-basedzeroknowledgePRFarguments.In Informa-
tion Security - 22nd International Conference (ISC’19), Proceedings (LNCS), Zhiqiang Lin, Charalampos Papamanthou,
and Michalis Polychronakis (Eds.), Vol. 11723. Springer, 171–189.
[36] Christian Cachin and Marko Vukolic. 2017. Blockchain consensus protocols in the wild (keynote talk). InDISC’17
(LIPIcs), Andrea W. Richa (Ed.), Vol. 91. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum fur Informatik, 1:1–1:16.
[37] TongCao,JiangshanYu,JérémieDecouchant,XiapuLuo,andPauloVeríssimo.2020.ExploringtheMoneropeer-to-
peer network. InFinancial Cryptography and Data Security (FC’20) Revised Selected Papers (LNCS), Joseph Bonneau
and Nadia Heninger (Eds.), Vol. 12059. Springer, 578–594.
[38] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. 2002. Practical byzantine fault tolerance and proactive recovery.ACM Trans.
Comput. Syst.20, 4 (2002), 398–461.
[39] WouterCastryckandThomasDecru.2022.AnefficientkeyrecoveryattackonSIDH(preliminaryversion).Cryptol-
ogy ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/975. (2022).https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/975.
[40] Wouter Castryck, Tanja Lange, Chloe Martindale, Lorenz Panny, and Joost Renes. 2018. CSIDH: An efficient post-
quantum commutative group action. InAdvances in Cryptology (ASIACRYPT’18), Thomas Peyrin and Steven Gal-
braith (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, 395–427.
[41] Melissa Chase, David Derler, Steven Goldfeder, Claudio Orlandi, Sebastian Ramacher, Christian Rechberger, Daniel
Slamanig,andGregZaverucha.2017.Post-quantumzero-knowledgeandsignaturesfromsymmetric-keyprimitives.
InProceedings of the 2017 ACM Sigsac Conference on Computer and Communications Security. 1825–1842.
[42] DavidChaum.1982.Blindsignaturesforuntraceablepayments.In AdvancesinCryptology:ProceedingsofCRYPTO’82 ,
David Chaum, Ronald L. Rivest, and Alan T. Sherman (Eds.). Plenum Press, New York, NY, 199–203.
[43] João Otávio Massari Chervinski, Diego Kreutz, and Jiangshan Yu. 2019. FloodXMR: Low-cost transaction flooding
attack with Monero’s bulletproof protocol.IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch.2019 (2019), 455.
[44] NicolaDiChiano,RiccardoLongo,AlessioMeneghetti,andGiordanoSantilli.2021.AsurveyonNISTPQsignatures.
CoRR abs/2107.11082 (2021).
[45] Jean-MarcCouveignes.2006.HardHomogeneousSpaces.CryptologyePrintArchive,Report2006/291.(2006). https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2006/291.
[46] Daniele Cozzo and Nigel P. Smart. 2019. Sharing the LUOV: Threshold post-quantum signatures. InCryptography
and Coding - 17th IMA International Conference (IMACC’19), Proceedings. 128–153.
[47] Daniele Cozzo and Nigel P. Smart. 2020. Sashimi: Cutting up CSI-FiSh secret keys to produce an actively secure
distributed signing protocol. InPost-Quantum Cryptography, Jintai Ding and Jean-Pierre Tillich (Eds.). Springer In-
ternational Publishing, Cham, 169–186.
[48] Kyle Croman, Christian Decker, Ittay Eyal, Adem Efe Gencer, Ari Juels, Ahmed E. Kosba, Andrew Miller, Prateek
Saxena,ElaineShi,EminGunSirer,DawnSong,andRogerWattenhofer.2016.Onscalingdecentralizedblockchains
- A position paper. InFC’16 (LNCS), Jeremy Clark, Sarah Meiklejohn, Peter Y. A. Ryan, Dan S. Wallach, Michael
Brenner, and Kurt Rohloff (Eds.), Vol. 9604. Springer, 106–125.
[49] CryptoNote Coins 2018. CryptoNote Currencies.https://cryptonote.org/coins/.
[50] Léonard Dallot and Damien Vergnaud. 2009. Provably secure code-based threshold ring signatures. InCryptogra-
phy and Coding, 12th IMA International Conference, Cryptography and Coding 2009. Proceedings (LNCS), Matthew G.
Parker (Ed.), Vol. 5921. Springer, 222–235.
[51] Ivan Damgård, Claudio Orlandi, Akira Takahashi, and Mehdi Tibouchi. 2021. Two-round n-out-of-n and multi-
signatures and trapdoor commitment from lattices. InPKC’21, Part I. 99–130.
[52] Luca De Feo and Steven D. Galbraith. 2019. SeaSign: Compact isogeny signatures from class group actions. InAd-
vances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’19), Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen (Eds.). Springer International Publishing,
Cham, 759–789.
[53] Luca De Feo and Michael Meyer. 2020. Threshold schemes from isogeny assumptions. InPublic-Key Cryptography
(PKC’20),Aggelos Kiayias,Markulf Kohlweiss, Petros Wallden,andVassilis Zikas (Eds.).Springer InternationalPub-
lishing, Cham, 187–212.
[54] CyprienDelpechdeSaintGuilhem,LaurenDeMeyer,EmmanuelaOrsini,andNigelPSmart.2019.BBQ:UsingAES
in picnic signatures. InInternational Conference on Selected Areas in Cryptography. Springer, 669–692.
[55] JeremieDecouchant,DavidKozhaya,VincentRahli,andJiangshanYu.2022.DAMYSUS:StreamlinedBFTconsensus
leveraging trusted components. InEuropean Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys’22).
[56] David Derler, Sebastian Ramacher, and Daniel Slamanig. 2018. Post-quantum zero-knowledge proofs for accumula-
torswithapplicationstoringsignaturesfromsymmetric-keyprimitives.In InternationalConferenceonPost-Quantum
Cryptography. Springer, 419–440.
[57] Yvo Desmedt and Yair Frankel. 1992. Shared generation of authenticators and signatures. InAdvances in Cryptology
(CRYPTO’91), Joan Feigenbaum (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 457–469.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:28 M. Buser et al.
[58] JintaiDingandDieterSchmidt.2005.Rainbow,anewmultivariablepolynomialsignaturescheme.In ACNS (Lecture
Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 3531. 164–175.
[59] Yarkin Doröz, Jeffrey Hoffstein, Joseph H. Silverman, and Berk Sunar. 2020. MMSAT: A scheme for multimessage
multiuser signature aggregation.IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch.2020 (2020), 520.
[60] Thaddeus Dryja. [n.d.]. Discrete log contracts.https://adiabat.github.io/dlc.pdf.
[61] LéoDucas,TancrèdeLepoint,VadimLyubashevsky,PeterSchwabe,GregorSeiler,andDamienStehlé.2018.Crystals–
dilithium: Digital signatures from module lattices. InCHES, Vol. 2018-1.https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/633.pdf.
[62] Rachid El Bansarkhani and Jan Sturm. 2016. An efficient lattice-based multisignature scheme with applications to
bitcoins. InInternational Conference on Cryptology and Network Security. Springer, 140–155.
[63] Muhammed F. Esgin, Oguzhan Ersoy, and Zekeriya Erkin. 2020. Post-quantum adaptor signatures and payment
channel networks. InESORICS (2) (LNCS), Vol. 12309. Springer, 378–397.
[64] MuhammedF.Esgin,RonSteinfeld,JosephK.Liu,andDongxiLiu.2019.Lattice-basedzero-knowledgeproofs:New
techniquesforshorterandfasterconstructionsandapplications.In CRYPTO(1)(LNCS) ,Vol.11692.Springer,115–146.
(Full version atia.cr/2019/445).
[65] Muhammed F. Esgin, Ron Steinfeld, Amin Sakzad, Joseph K. Liu, and Dongxi Liu. 2019. Short lattice-based one-out-
of-manyproofsandapplicationstoringsignatures.In ACNS(LNCS).Springer,67–88.(Fullversionat ia.cr/2018/773).
[66] Muhammed F. Esgin, Ron Steinfeld, and Raymond K. Zhao. 2022. MatRiCT+: More efficient post-quantum private
blockchain payments. InIEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE, 1281–1298. (Full version atia.cr/2021/545).
[67] Muhammed F. Esgin, Raymond K. Zhao, Ron Steinfeld, Joseph K. Liu, and Dongxi Liu. 2019. MatRiCT: Efficient,
scalableandpost-quantumblockchainconfidentialtransactionsprotocol.In ACMCCS2019,Proceedings .ACM,567–
584. (Full version atia.cr/2019/1287).
[68] Tiago M. Fernández-Caramés and Paula Fraga-Lamas. 2020. Towards post-quantum blockchain: A review on
blockchain cryptography resistant to quantum computing attacks.IEEE Access8 (2020), 21091–21116.
[69] AmosFiatandAdiShamir.1987.Howtoproveyourself:Practicalsolutionstoidentificationandsignatureproblems.
In Advances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’ 86), Andrew M. Odlyzko (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 186–194.
[70] MarcFischlin.2006.Round-optimalcomposableblindsignaturesinthecommonreferencestringmodel.In Advances
in Cryptology (CRYPTO’06), Cynthia Dwork (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 60–77.
[71] MasayukiFukumitsuandShingoHasegawa.2020.Alattice-basedprovablysecuremultisignatureschemeinquantum
random oracle model. InProvSec’20. 45–64.
[72] Philippe Gaborit, Olivier Ruatta, Julien Schrek, and Gilles Zémor. 2014. RankSign: An efficient signature algorithm
based on the rank metric. InPost-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto’14), Proceedings (LNCS), Michele Mosca (Ed.),
Vol. 8772. Springer, 88–107.
[73] WenGao,YupuHu,BaocangWang,andJiaXie.2017.Identity-basedblindsignaturefromlatticesinstandardmodel.
In Information Security and Cryptology, Kefei Chen, Dongdai Lin, and Moti Yung (Eds.). Springer International Pub-
lishing, Cham, 205–218.
[74] Rosario Gennaro, Steven Goldfeder, and Arvind Narayanan. 2016. Threshold-optimal DSA/ECDSA signatures and
an application to bitcoin wallet security. InACNS’16, Proceedings. Springer, 156–174.
[75] Rosario Gennaro, Stanisław Jarecki, Hugo Krawczyk, and Tal Rabin. 2001. Robust threshold DSS signatures.Infor-
mation and Computation164, 1 (2001), 54–84.https://doi.org/10.1006/inco.2000.2881
[76] Irene Giacomelli, Jesper Madsen, and Claudio Orlandi. 2016. Zkboo: Faster zero-knowledge for boolean circuits. In
25th {Usenix}Security Symposium ({Usenix}Security 16). 1069–1083.
[77] GuyGolan-Gueta,IttaiAbraham,ShellyGrossman,DahliaMalkhi,BennyPinkas,MichaelK.Reiter,Dragos-Adrian
Seredinschi, Orr Tamir, and Alin Tomescu. 2019. SBFT: A scalable and decentralized trust infrastructure. In49th
Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN’19). IEEE, 568–580.
[78] Shafi Goldwasser, Silvio Micali, and Charles Rackoff. 1985. The knowledge complexity of interactive proof-systems
(extended abstract). InACM STOC’85, Proceedings, Robert Sedgewick (Ed.). ACM, 291–304.
[79] LewisGudgeon,PedroMoreno-Sanchez,StefanieRoos,PatrickMcCorry,andArthurGervais.2020.SoK:Layer-two
blockchain protocols. InFinancial Cryptography and Data Security (FC’20) Revised Selected Papers (Lecture Notes in
Computer Science), Joseph Bonneau and Nadia Heninger (Eds.), Vol. 12059. Springer, 201–226.
[80] Tim Güneysu, Vadim Lyubashevsky, and Thomas Pöppelmann. 2012. Practical lattice-based cryptography: A sig-
nature scheme for embedded systems. InCryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems (CHES’12), Proceedings.
530–547.
[81] Runchao Han, Haoyu Lin, and Jiangshan Yu. 2019. On the optionality and fairness of atomic swaps. InProceedings
of the 1st ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies (AFT’19). ACM, 62–75.
[82] L.Harn.1994.Group-oriented (t,n) thresholddigitalsignatureschemeanddigitalmultisignature. IEEProceedings -
Computers and Digital Techniques141, 5 (September 1994), 307–313(6).
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:29
[83] Eduard Hauck, Eike Kiltz, Julian Loss, and Ngoc Khanh Nguyen. 2020. Lattice-based blind signatures, revisited. In
Advances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’20), Daniele Micciancio and Thomas Ristenpart (Eds.). Springer International Pub-
lishing, Cham, 500–529.
[84] Jeffrey Hoffstein, Jill Pipher, John M. Schanck, Joseph H. Silverman, and William Whyte. 2014. Practical signatures
from the partial fourier recovery problem. InApplied Cryptography and Network Security (ACNS’14). Proceedings.
476–493.
[85] YuvalIshai,EyalKushilevitz,RafailOstrovsky,andAmitSahai.2009.Zero-knowledgeproofsfromsecuremultiparty
computation. SIAM J. Comput.39, 3 (2009), 1121–1152.
[86] Kazuharu Itakura and Katsuhiro Nakamura. 1983. A public-key cryptosystem suitable for digital multisignatures.
NEC Research & Development71 (1983), 1–8.
[87] AbhishekJain,StephanKrenn,KrzysztofPietrzak,andArisTentes.2012.Commitmentsandefficientzero-knowledge
proofs from learning parity with noise. InAdvances in Cryptology (ASIACRYPT’12), Proceedings (LNCS),X i a o y u n
Wang and Kazue Sako (Eds.), Vol. 7658. Springer, 663–680.
[88] David Jao and Luca De Feo. 2011. Towards quantum-resistant cryptosystems from supersingular elliptic curve iso-
genies. InPost-Quantum Cryptography, Bo-Yin Yang (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 19–34.
[89] David Jao and Vladimir Soukharev. 2014. Isogeny-based quantum-resistant undeniable signatures. InPost-Quantum
Cryptography, Michele Mosca (Ed.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 160–179.
[90] Ari Juels, Michael Luby, and Rafail Ostrovsky. 1997. Security of blind digital signatures. InAdvances in Cryptology
(CRYPTO’97), Burton S. Kaliski (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 150–164.
[91] Daniel Kales and Greg Zaverucha. 2020. Improving the performance of the picnic signature scheme.IACR Transac-
tions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems(2020), 154–188.
[92] Jonathan Katz, Vladimir Kolesnikov, and Xiao Wang. 2018. Improved non-interactive zero knowledge with applica-
tions to post-quantum signatures. InACM SIGSAC CCS 2018, Proceedings. 525–537.
[93] Amrit Kumar, Clément Fischer, Shruti Tople, and Prateek Saxena. 2017. A traceability analysis of Monero’s
blockchain. InESORICS. 153–173.
[94] Leslie Lamport. 1979.Constructing Digital Signatures from a One-way Function. Technical Report. Citeseer.
[95] Adeline Langlois and Damien Stehlé. 2015. Worst-case to average-case reductions for module lattices.Des. Codes
Cryptogr.75, 3 (2015), 565–599.
[96] H.Q.Le,W.Susilo,T.X.Khuc,M.K.Bui,andD.H.Duong.2019.Ablindsignaturefrommodulelatices.In 2019IEEE
Conference on Dependable and Secure Computing (DSC’19).1 – 8 .https://doi.org/10.1109/DSC47296.2019.8937613
[97] A. K. Lenstra, H. W. Lenstra, and L. Lovász. [n.d.]. Factoring polynomials with rational coefficients.Math. Ann.
261 ([n.d.]), 515–534.https://doi.org/10.1007/BF014
[98] C. Liang, C. Yongquan, T. Xueming, H. Dongping, and W. Xin. 2011. Hierarchical ID-based blind signature from
lattices. In2011 7th International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security. 803–807.https://doi.org/10.
1109/CIS.2011.182
[99] Yehuda Lindell. 2017. Fast secure two-party ECDSA signing. InAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’17), Proceedings,
Part II (LNCS). Springer, 613–644.
[100] Joseph K. Liu, Victor K. Wei, and Duncan S. Wong. 2004. Linkable spontaneous anonymous group signature for
ad hoc groups. InInformation Security and Privacy, Huaxiong Wang, Josef Pieprzyk, and Vijay Varadharajan (Eds.).
Springer, Berlin, 325–335.
[101] XingyeLu,ManHoAu,andZhenfeiZhang.2019.Raptor:Apracticallattice-based(linkable)ringsignature.In ACNS
(LNCS), Vol. 11464. Springer, 110–130.
[102] Vadim Lyubashevsky. 2009. Fiat-Shamir with aborts: Applications to lattice and factoring-based signatures. InASI-
ACRYPT. Springer, 598–616.
[103] Vadim Lyubashevsky. 2012. Lattice signatures without trapdoors. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’12), Pro-
ceedings (LNCS). 738–755.
[104] VadimLyubashevskyandDanieleMicciancio.2006.Generalizedcompactknapsacksarecollisionresistant.In ICALP
(2) (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 4052. Springer, 144–155.
[105] VadimLyubashevsky,NgocKhanhNguyen,andGregorSeiler.2021.SMILE:SetMembershipfromIdealLatticeswith
Applications to Ring Signatures and Confidential Transactions. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2021/564. (2021).
ia.cr/2021/564 (to appear at Crypto 2021).
[106] Vadim Lyubashevsky, Chris Peikert, and Oded Regev. 2010. On ideal lattices and learning with errors over rings. In
EUROCRYPT (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 6110. Springer, 1–23.
[107] Srinath M. S. and Venkatachalam Chandrasekaran. 2018. Isogeny-based quantum-resistant undeniable blind signa-
ture scheme.International Journal of Network Security20 (2018), 9–18.https://doi.org/10.6633/IJNS.201801.20(1).02
[108] Changshe Ma and Mei Jiang. 2019. Practical lattice-based multisignature schemes for blockchains.IEEE Access
7 (2019), 179765–179778.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:30 M. Buser et al.
[109] Luciano Maino and Chloe Martindale. 2022. An attack on SIDH with arbitrary starting curve. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2022/1026. (2022).https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1026.
[110] Giulio Malavolta, Pedro Moreno-Sanchez, Clara Schneidewind, Aniket Kate, and Matteo Maffei. 2019. Anonymous
multi-hop locks for blockchain scalability and interoperability. InNDSS’19.https://www.ndss-symposium.org/ndss-
paper/anonymous-multi-hop-locks-for-blockchain-scalability-and-interoperability/ .
[111] Dahlia Malkhi and Michael K. Reiter. 1997. Byzantine quorum systems. InTheory of Computing.
[112] Tsutomu Matsumoto and Hideki Imai. 1988. Public quadratic polynomial-tuples for efficient signature-verification
and message-encryption. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’88), D. Barstow, W. Brauer, P. Brinch Hansen,
D. Gries, D. Luckham, C. Moler, A. Pnueli, G. Seegmüller, J.A Stoer, N. Wirth, and Christoph G. Günther (Eds.).
Springer, Berlin, 419–453.
[113] Gregory Maxwell, Andrew Poelstra, Yannick Seurin, and Pieter Wuille. 2019. Simple Schnorr multi-signatures with
applications to bitcoin.Designs, Codes and Cryptography87, 9 (2019), 2139–2164.
[114] RalphC.Merkle.1989.Acertifieddigitalsignature.In AdvancesinCryptology(CRYPTO’89),9thAnnualInternational
CryptologyConference,Proceedings(LectureNotesinComputerScience) ,GillesBrassard(Ed.),Vol.435.Springer,218–
238. https://doi.org/10.1007/0-387-34805-0_21
[115] Simon-PhilippMerz,RomyMinko,andChristophePetit.2020.Anotherlookatsomeisogenyhardnessassumptions.
In Topics in Cryptology (CT-RSA’20), Stanislaw Jarecki (Ed.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 496–511.
[116] Daniele Micciancio. 2007. Generalized compact knapsacks, cyclic lattices, and efficient one-way functions.Comput.
Complex.16, 4 (2007), 365–411.https://doi.org/10.1007/s00037-007-0234-9
[117] ArashMirzaei,AminSakzad,JiangshanYu,andRonSteinfeld.2021.FPPW:Afairandprivacypreservingwatchtower
for bitcoin. InFC.
[118] MohamedSaiedEmamMohamedandAlbrechtPetzoldt.2017.RingRainbow-Anefficientmultivariateringsignature
scheme.In ProgressinCryptology(AFRICACRYPT’17),Proceedings(LNCS) ,MarcJoyeandAbderrahmaneNitaj(Eds.),
Vol. 10239. 3–20.
[119] Malte Möser, Kyle Soska, Ethan Heilman, Kevin Lee, Henry Heffan, Shashvat Srivastava, Kyle Hogan, Jason Hen-
nessey, Andrew Miller, Arvind Narayanan, and Nicolas Christin. 2018. An empirical analysis of traceability in the
monero blockchain.PoPETs2018, 3 (2018), 143–163.
[120] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2009. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.https://bitcoin.org
[121] Christopher Natoli, Jiangshan Yu, Vincent Gramoli, and Paulo Jorge Esteves Veríssimo. 2019. Deconstructing
blockchains: A comprehensive survey on consensus, membership and structure.CoRR abs/1908.08316 (2019).http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1908.08316
[122] Shen Noether. 2015. Ring Signature Confidential Transactions for Monero. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2015/1098. (2015).ia.cr/2015/1098.
[123] D. Papachristoudis, D. Hristu-Varsakelis, F. Baldimtsi, and G. Stephanides. 2019. Leakage-Resilient Lattice-Based
Partially Blind Signatures. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/1452. (2019)./eprint.iacr.org/2019/1452.
[124] Jacques Patarin. 1996. Hidden fields equations (HFE) and isomorphisms of polynomials (IP): Two new families of
asymmetricalgorithms.In AdvancesinCryptology(EUROCRYPT’96),Proceedings(LectureNotesinComputerScience) ,
Ueli M. Maurer (Ed.), Vol. 1070. Springer, 33–48.
[125] Jacques Patarin, Nicolas T. Courtois, and Louis Goubin. 2001. QUARTZ, 128-bit long digital signatures. InTopics in
Cryptology(CT-RSA’01),TheCryptographer’sTrackatRSA2001,Proceedings(LNCS) ,DavidNaccache(Ed.),Vol.2020.
Springer, 282–297.
[126] Torben Pryds Pedersen. 1991. A threshold cryptosystem without a trusted party. InAdvances in Cryptology (EURO-
CRYPT’91), Donald W. Davies (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 522–526.
[127] Edwin Pednault, John Gunnels, Dmitri Maslov, and Jay Gambetta. [n.d.]. On “Quantum Supremacy."https://www.
ibm.com/blogs/research/2019/10/on-quantum-supremacy/.
[128] Chris Peikert. 2020. He gives c-sieves on the CSIDH. InAdvances in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’20), Anne Canteaut
and Yuval Ishai (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 463–492.
[129] Chris Peikert and Alon Rosen. 2006. Efficient collision-resistant hashing from worst-case assumptions on cyclic
lattices. InTCC (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 3876. Springer, 145–166.
[130] Albrecht Petzoldt, Stanislav Bulygin, and Johannes Buchmann. 2013. A multivariate based threshold ring signature
scheme.Appl. Algebra Eng. Commun. Comput.24, 3–4 (2013), 255–275.
[131] Albrecht Petzoldt, Alan Szepieniec, and Mohamed Saied Emam Mohamed. 2017. A practical multivariate blind sig-
naturescheme.In FinancialCryptographyandDataSecurity(FC’17),RevisedSelectedPapers(LNCS) ,AggelosKiayias
(Ed.), Vol. 10322. Springer, 437–454.
[132] Andrew Poelstra. [n.d.]. Adaptor signatures and atomic swaps from scriptless scripts. https://github.com/
ElementsProject/scriptless-scripts/blob/master/md/atomic-swap.md.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
A Survey on Exotic Signatures for Post-quantum Blockchain 251:31
[133] Andrew Poelstra. [n.d.]. Scriptless Scripts. Presentation Slides. ([n.d.]).https://download.wpsoftware.net/bitcoin/
wizardry/mw-slides/2017-05-milan-meetup/slides.pdf .
[134] Oded Regev. 2005. On lattices, learning with errors, random linear codes, and cryptography. InProceedings of the
37th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, Harold N. Gabow and Ronald Fagin (Eds.). ACM, 84–93.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1060590.1060603
[135] RonaldL.Rivest,AdiShamir,andYaelTauman.2001.Howtoleakasecret.In AdvancesinCryptology(ASIACRYPT’01) ,
Colin Boyd (Ed.). Springer, Berlin, 552–565.
[136] DamienRobert.2022.BreakingSIDHinpolynomialtime.CryptologyePrintArchive,Paper2022/1038.(2022). https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2022/1038.
[137] MarkusRückert.2010.Lattice-basedblindsignatures.In AdvancesinCryptology(ASIACRYPT’10),Proceedings(LNCS) ,
Masayuki Abe (Ed.), Vol. 6477. Springer, 413–430.
[138] Rajeev Anand Sahu, Agnese Gini, and Ankan Pal. 2019. Supersingular Isogeny-Based Designated Verifier Blind Sig-
nature. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/1498. (2019).https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/1498.
[139] Koichi Sakumoto, Taizo Shirai, and Harunaga Hiwatari. 2011. Public-key identification schemes based on multi-
variate quadratic polynomials. InAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’11), Proceedings (LNCS), Phillip Rogaway (Ed.),
Vol. 6841. Springer, 706–723.
[140] C. P. Schnorr. 1990. Efficient identification and signatures for smart cards. InAdvances in Cryptology (CRYPTO’89)
Proceedings, Gilles Brassard (Ed.). Springer, New York, NY, 239–252.
[141] Adi Shamir. 1979. How to share a secret.Commun. ACM22, 11 (Nov. 1979), 612–613.https://doi.org/10.1145/359168.
359176
[142] Peter W. Shor. 1994. Algorithms for quantum computation: Discrete logarithms and factoring. InFOCS’94. IEEE
Computer Society, 124–134.
[143] Damien Stehlé, Ron Steinfeld, Keisuke Tanaka, and Keita Xagawa. 2009. Efficient public key encryption based on
ideal lattices. InASIACRYPT (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 5912. Springer, 617–635.
[144] Jacques Stern. 1993. A new identification scheme based on syndrome decoding. In Advances in Cryptology
(CRYPTO’93), Proceedings (LNCS), Douglas R. Stinson (Ed.), Vol. 773. Springer, 13–21.
[145] Erkan Tairi, Pedro Moreno-Sanchez, and Matteo Maffei. 2020. Post-Quantum Adaptor Signature for Privacy-
Preserving Off-Chain Payments. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2020/1345. (2020).https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/
1345.
[146] DominiqueUnruh.2015.Non-interactivezero-knowledgeproofsinthequantumrandomoraclemodel.In Advances
in Cryptology (EUROCRYPT’15). 755–784.https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-46803-6_25
[147] LukeValentaandBrendanRowan.2015.Blindcoin:Blinded,accountablemixesforbitcoin.In FinancialCryptography
and Data Security (FC’15) International Workshops, BITCOIN, WAHC, and Wearable, Revised Selected Papers (Lecture
Notes in Computer Science), Michael Brenner,Nicolas Christin, BenjaminJohnson, and Kurt Rohloff (Eds.), Vol. 8976.
Springer, 112–126.
[148] LukeValentaandBrendanRowan.2015.Blindcoin:Blinded,accountablemixesforbitcoin.In FinancialCryptography
and Data Security, Michael Brenner, Nicolas Christin, Benjamin Johnson, and Kurt Rohloff (Eds.). Springer, Berlin,
112–126.
[149] Nicolas van Saberhagen. 2012. CryptoNote v 1.0.https://cryptonote.org/whitepaper_v1.pdf
[150] Marko Vukolic. 2015. The quest for scalable blockchain fabric: Proof-of-work vs. BFT replication. InIFIPWG114
(LNCS), Jan Camenisch and Dogan Kesdogan (Eds.), Vol. 9591. Springer, 112–125.
[151] Shangping Wang, Rui Ma, Yaling Zhang, and Xiaofeng Wang. 2011. Ring signature scheme based on multivariate
public key cryptosystems.Comput. Math. Appl.62, 10 (2011), 3973–3979.
[152] American National Standard X9.62-2005. 2005. Public key cryptography for the financial services industry: The
elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA).ANSI X9(2005), 163.
[153] Xun Yi and Kwok-Yan Lam. 2019. A new blind ECDSA scheme for bitcoin transaction anonymity. InProceedings of
the2019ACM(AsiaCCS’19) ,StevenD.Galbraith,GiovanniRussello,WillySusilo,DieterGollmann,EnginKirda,and
Zhenkai Liang (Eds.). ACM, 613–620.
[154] XunYi,XuechaoYang,AndreiKelarev,KwokYanLam,andZahirTari.2022. BlockchainFoundationsandApplications .
Springer.
[155] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K. Reiter, Guy Golan-Gueta, and Ittai Abraham. 2019. HotStuff: BFT consensus
withlinearityandresponsiveness.In Proceedingsofthe2019ACMSymposiumonPrinciplesofDistributedComputing .
347–356.
[156] Youngho Yoo, Reza Azarderakhsh, Amir Jalali, David Jao, and Vladimir Soukharev. 2017. A post-quantum digital
signature scheme based on supersingular isogenies. InFinancial Cryptography and Data Security, Aggelos Kiayias
(Ed.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 163–181.
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.
251:32 M. Buser et al.
[157] Jiangshan Yu, Man Ho Allen Au, and Paulo Jorge Esteves Veríssimo. 2019. Re-thinking untraceability in the
cryptonote-style blockchain. InIEEE CSF. 94–107.
[158] Jiangshan Yu, David Kozhaya, Jeremie Decouchant, and Paulo Esteves-Verissimo. 2019. RepuCoin: Your reputation
is your power.IEEE Transactions on Computers (ToC)68 (2019), 1225–1237.
[159] ZuoxiaYu,ManHoAu,JiangshanYu,RupengYang,QiuliangXu,andWangFatLau.2019.Newempiricaltraceability
analysisofcryptonote-styleblockchains.In FinancialCryptographyandDataSecurity(FC’19),RevisedSelectedPapers
(Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Ian Goldberg and Tyler Moore (Eds.), Vol. 11598. Springer, 133–149.
[160] TszHonYuen,MuhammedF.Esgin,JosephK.Liu,ManHoAu,andZhiminDing.2021.DualRing:Genericconstruc-
tion of ring signatures with efficient instantiations. InCRYPTO (1) (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), Vol. 12825.
Springer, 251–281.
[161] Dong Zheng, Xiangxue Li, and Kefei Chen. 2007. Code-based ring signature scheme.Int. J. Netw. Secur.5, 2 (2007),
154–157.
[162] Hongfei Zhu, Yu an Tan, Xiaosong Zhang, Liehuang Zhu, Changyou Zhang, and Jun Zheng. 2017. A round-optimal
lattice-based blind signature scheme for cloud services.Future Generation Computer Systems73 (2017), 106–114.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.01.031
Received 6 February 2022; revised 4 November 2022; accepted 8 November 2022
ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 55, No. 12, Article 251. Publication date: March 2023.